Contoso Electronics needed all their content and data extracted from a large volume of documents in time for the quarterly accounting review. This required a much more streamlined process to manage and understand all the necessary documents.

SharePoint Syntex’s document understanding and form processing models helped automate the process in an efficient and timely way to capture the necessary information needed to meet the deadline. Document understanding models extracted important data from unstructured documents, like sales letters, project documentation, and product quality reports. Form processing models were crucial in pulling out information from essential structured and semi-structured documents such as contracts, invoices, purchase orders, billing statements, and other forms.  

Overall, you saw how the primary features of Syntex like document understanding models and form processing models allowed for a customized business workflow to automate content processing, as well as recognized which parts of Syntex to use for your specific workplace needs.

Without being able to properly classify and process hundreds or even thousands of content pieces within your organization, business processes become far less efficient and more time consuming. Imagine going into your SharePoint document library and seeing a never-ending list of documents with very similar titles and no distinguishing features. You can filter by date, but that doesn’t get you any closer to finding what you’re looking for or understanding what’s in the documents. You can attempt searching, but without anything identified in the documents, the search cannot accurately pinpoint your need.

SharePoint Syntex made it easy. Using no-code AI models and machine learning, SharePoint Syntex models organized complex document libraries, even those with thousands of documents and a wide variety of content types, into simple, streamlined and useable data. Automated content processing helped gain speed and efficiency, plus provided a new way to monitor and manage content understanding to maximize business profitability. More efficient business processes ultimately saved hundreds of hours of labor and greatly impacted business efficiency to not only help meet quarterly goals, but also create a solid foundation for content understanding.
