You now know that there are two main tools that make up SharePoint Syntex – document understanding models and form processing models. Now you need to understand _when_ to use the models.

Think back to the large volumes of data you need to manage for the approaching quarterly Accounting deadline. How can you use SharePoint Syntex to overcome this challenge? SharePoint Syntex offers several solutions to help organize data from different document types, using document understanding models and form processing models. Let's look at some common scenarios that may help identify how you can use SharePoint Syntex to meet these deadlines.

## SharePoint Syntex use cases

### Automate business processes

Both document understanding models and form processing models take what was manual and turn it into something automated and streamlined for your business.  

With document understanding models, _unstructured_ documents, like the sales letters generated by your company, are understood and processed. AI in the model identifies and classifies the information that you train it on, so that you can optimize your SharePoint document library for what's most crucial for document understanding.

Form processing models focus on _structured_ and _semi-structured_ documents, like applications and contracts, allowing you to use AI Builder to capture the necessary information from these content types. For your organization, form processing will be helpful for contracts, purchase orders, invoices, and billing statements that need to be processed in time for the quarterly Accounting deadline.

While the content types are different, the focus of both models is to identify and extract the information that matters most to your business and its processes. In doing so, your organization can create more organized and efficient processes for how it handles this information, what it learns from it, and what it does with it.  

### Manage compliance risk

Maintaining compliance and data governance is critical today. Your customers and clients need to trust that the data and information your business captures is used in a secure and thoughtful way. Having a full, clear view into your content landscape is essential to achieve this. Knowing exactly where information is taken from and how it is categorized sets your business up for compliance success.

As your organization approaches its quarterly deadline, you need the financial data, but these documents and files are full of sensitive customer or supplier data. Best practices and, in some countries, governments regulate how long financial documents must be kept. To meet your deadline, proper classification and retention of this data is critical.

## When SharePoint Syntex does not apply

### Consider the content type and information

SharePoint Syntex is not an end-all solution for content processing. While document understanding and form processing models make it much more efficient to quickly get the information you need, certain documents should still be reviewed more closely. For example, loan applications can be easily processed and classified with SharePoint Syntex, and the most essential information and metadata can be extracted immediately for easier viewing, but a deeper review of the applications may still be necessary for determining next steps in the application process.

## Learn more

- [Scenarios and use cases for Microsoft SharePoint Syntex](/microsoft-365/contentunderstanding/adoption-scenarios)