To successfully complete an IMAP migration, it’s essential that you understand the IMAP migration process. The following diagram identifies the steps required to complete an IMAP migration.<br>

:::image type="content" source="../media/imap-migration-fe7a6cb7.png" alt-text="diagram shows the steps required to complete an IMAP migration":::


The following list describes each step in this diagram in greater detail:

1.  **Add users and assign licenses.** Create your users in Microsoft 365 and assign Exchange licenses so that all mailboxes are created in Exchange Online. This step is an important prerequisite for an IMAP migration because you can't start the migration without having your target mailboxes available.
2.  **Prepare your IMAP source system and verify your domains in Microsoft 365**. You must understand and prepare your IMAP source system in such a way that the Exchange Online migration wizard can log into the mailboxes and read the messages. As you prepare for your migration, you must also verify all the existing SMTP domains in your Microsoft 365 tenant. Addresses with SMTP domains that aren't in your tenant can't be used in Exchange Online.
3.  **Communicate changes to users.** Let your users know about the migration and how it impacts them. Provide them with instruction as to the tasks that must be completed before, during, and after the migration. As a best practice, you should ask your users to reduce their mailbox size as much as possible and empty their Deleted Items folder.
4.  **Set up admin credentials or get or reset user email passwords.** To complete the migration, you either need an administrator account that can sign in and access all mailboxes that must be migrated, or you need the username and password to each mailbox. If you can’t access user mailboxes, you’ll have to reset your users’ passwords. Resetting user passwords lets you access the user mailboxes by using a new password that you know.
5.  **Create a list of mailboxes to migrate.** Create a CSV file that lists each mailbox that you want to migrate. For each source email address, you must include the corresponding Exchange Online mailbox and the username and password.
6.  **Connect Microsoft 365 to your source email system.** As a preparatory task, you can create a migration endpoint in Microsoft 365 that connects to your source email system. If you don’t create a migration endpoint, one will be created for you by the migration wizard when it creates a migration batch.
7.  **Migrate mailboxes and verify the migration.** To start migrating your mailboxes, you must use the IMAP migration wizard to create a migration batch. The wizard will then start a synchronization. Once the migration batch is finished, verify that all messages are successfully migrated. The migration batch will automatically do a delta-synchronization every 24 hours to migrate any newly arrived messages to their respective Exchange Online mailboxes.
8.  **Optimize email settings (Optional).** There are some settings you can configure so that it doesn't take as long for email to begin showing up in your new Microsoft 365 mailboxes. For more information, see [Tips for optimizing IMAP migrations](/exchange/mailbox-migration/migrating-imap-mailboxes/optimizing-imap-migrations?azure-portal=true).
9.  **Change MX record to Microsoft 365.** Change the DNS MX record of all your SMTP domains so that new email is delivered to Microsoft 365. As a best practice, you should wait a day or two to ensure the DNS settings have propagated to all the other SMTP servers on the Internet so that no messages are transferred to your old mail server.
10. **Verify routing.** After you verify that all email is being routed to Microsoft 365, you should complete a final delta-synchronization between your source email system and Microsoft 365. Once this step is complete, you should delete the migration batch to stop the synchronization.
11. **Inform your users.** Once you've completed the migration, you should send a Welcome message to your users to let them know about Microsoft 365 and how to sign into their new mailboxes.

## Knowledge check

Choose the best response for the following question. Then select **Check your answers**.