Microsoft Graph Toolkit provides various components that can be used out of the box such as Agenda, People, Tasks and more. The components help you connect with specific Microsoft Graph queries directly in HTML without any customization needed. 

Let’s say you would like to display a group of people in your app, you can use the **People** component to handle calling Microsoft Graph.

Here's an example of using the People component in HTML:
    
```html
<mgt-people></mgt-people>
```

The People component makes the following Microsoft Graph query:

```http
GET /me/people
```

The output generated by the People component will look like the following:

:::image type="content" source="../media/4-people.png" alt-text="A screenshot that shows how Microsoft Graph Toolkit People component.":::

Suppose you want to get a user’s e-mails using the following Microsoft Graph API for Outlook query: 

```http
GET /me/messages
```

This functionality isn't available in the collection of Microsoft Graph Toolkit components out of the box. However, Microsoft Graph Toolkit provides a practical solution for consuming any Microsoft Graph query to reach hundreds of different datasets available in Microsoft 365. By using the **Get** component, you can call any Microsoft Graph query to retrieve required data directly in HTML.

Here's an example of using the **Get** component: 
```html
<mgt-get></mgt-get>
```

The following attributes can be added to the `<mgt-get>` tag to define the type of Microsoft Graph query you want to make:
- **resource:** the preferred Microsoft Graph API query for the request
- **scopes:** required scopes for the request
- **version:** Microsoft Graph API version for the request (v1.0 or beta)

Unlike other components in Microsoft Graph Toolkit, the **Get** component doesn't provide any pre-built UI. You must configure a template that will be used to display the data.

In the next exercise, you'll learn how to use the Get component and display Notebooks from OneNote for the signed-in user.
