Many large enterprises have more than one on-premises AD forest, and in some cases, customers have more than one Exchange and/or Skype for Business Server (or Lync Server) deployment. In addition, even organizations with only one on-premises forest could find themselves in a similar situation via a business merger or acquisition. As these customers move to the cloud, they want to consolidate the multiple instances of a given on-premises workload into the cloud into a single Microsoft 365 tenant. This article describes how to achieve that consolidation for organizations with multiple on-premises deployments of Skype for Business (or Lync) who want to move their UC workload to the Microsoft cloud, for example, Microsoft Teams and/or Skype for Business Online.

Historically, the guidance has been for customers in this situation to consolidate deployments on-premises first and then move to the cloud. While this is still an option, below is a solution based on new functionality that enables organizations with multiple Skype for Business deployments to migrate one deployment at a time into a single Microsoft 365 tenant, without doing on-premises consolidation. Even with this new functionality, Skype for Business Online and Microsoft Teams do not support multiple Skype for Business/Lync forests in hybrid mode with a single Microsoft 365 tenant.

## Overview of cloud consolidation

Consolidation of all users from on-premises into the cloud in a single Microsoft 365 tenant can be achieved for any organization with multiple Skype for Business deployments, provided that the following key requirements are met:

- There must be at most one Microsoft 365 tenant involved. Consolidation in scenarios with more than one Microsoft 365 tenant is not supported.
- At any given time, only one on-premises Skype for Business forest can be in hybrid mode (Shared SIP Address Space). All other on-premises Skype for Business forests must remain on-premises (and presumably federated with each other). These other on-premises organizations can sync to AAD if desired with new functionality to disable online SIP domains available as of December 2018.

Customers with deployments of Skype for Business in multiple forests must fully migrate all users of a single hybrid Skype for Business forest individually into the Microsoft 365 tenant using Shared SIP Address Space functionality, and then disable hybrid with that on-premises deployment, before moving on to migrate the next on-premises Skype for Business deployment. Prior to being migrated to the cloud, on-premises users remain in a federated state with any users that are not represented in the same user's on-premises directory.

For more information, including examples, starting points, limitations, implications, and considerations, see [Cloud consolidation for Teams and Skype for Business](/SkypeForBusiness/hybrid/cloud-consolidation).
