Moving to the cloud increases flexibility for employees and IT alike. However, it also introduces new challenges and complexities for keeping your organization secure. To get the full benefit of cloud apps and services, an IT team must find the right balance of supporting access while maintaining control to protect critical data. It is crucial to gain visibility and control of data in cloud applications, given the increasing number of cybersecurity attacks and compliance requirements with key regulations.

Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps is a user-based subscription service that provides rich visibility and control over data travel and sophisticated analytics to identify and combat cyberthreats across all your cloud services. Defender for Cloud Apps, which is powered by native integrations with industry-leading security and identity solutions, including Azure Active Directory, Intune, and Azure Information Protection, identifies and combats these threats by operating as an intermediary, or broker, between a cloud user and the cloud provider.

Defender for Cloud Apps is a *cloud access security broker* (CASB). CASBs are cloud-based security solutions that provide a layer of security to enable oversight and control of activities and information across public and custom cloud SaaS apps and IaaS services. CASBs are broken down into four key capability areas, including Shadow IT discovery, information protection, threat protection, and compliance. These capability areas represent the framework upon which Defender for Cloud Apps is built.

Defender for Cloud Apps and the Defender for Cloud Apps framework:

- **Discover and control the use of Shadow IT**: Identify the cloud apps, IaaS, and PaaS services used by your organization, some of which may not even be known or controlled by the IT department. Investigate usage patterns, assess the risk levels and business readiness of more than 16,000 SaaS apps against more than 80 risks.
- **Protect your sensitive information anywhere in the cloud**: Understand, classify, and protect the exposure of sensitive information at rest. Leverage out-of-the-box policies and automated processes to apply controls in real time across all your cloud apps.
- **Protect against cyberthreats and anomalies**: Detect unusual behavior across cloud apps to identify ransomware, compromised users or rogue applications, analyze high-risk usage, and remediate automatically to limit the risk to your organization.
- **Assess the compliance of your cloud apps**: Assess if your cloud apps meet relevant compliance requirements, including regulatory compliance and industry standards. Prevent data leaks to non-compliant apps and limit access to regulated data.

To learn more go through the [Interactive guide – Discover, protect, and control your apps with Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps](https://mslearn.cloudguides.com/guides/Discover,%20protect,%20and%20control%20your%20apps%20with%20Microsoft%20Cloud%20App%20Security)
