SharePoint Syntex is a valuable solution for content understanding. Syntex uses the power of AI to turn complex and scattered information into understandable and actionable knowledge. Establishing a clear and thoughtful strategy for how your organization can best utilize Syntex can determine how effective the solution is for your specific organization and its pain points.

Suppose you work for Contoso Electronics, a large electronic components company. You’ve noticed a considerably sized volume of documents and forms are constantly being saved and shared within multiple document libraries. There are numerous team members within your organization accessing these documents, from directors and managers to sales staff and technicians. While all these teams are spending a growing number of hours searching and browsing this content to find what they need, the impact has been particularly noticeable for sales people, who are spending more time searching through these libraries looking for sales contracts, purchase orders, and other important documents, instead of spending much-needed time directly in front of clients. Wouldn’t a more organized, thoughtful content system help give back essential time to the staff?

In this module, you will learn about useful scenarios for utilizing SharePoint Syntex; how to identify the proper roles and responsibilities within your organization for supporting Syntex; which key stakeholders should be involved in Syntex adoption; and how your team can align on a strategy for SharePoint Syntex.

Once completed with this module, you will be able to organize your team for effectively actuating Syntex and develop an actionable Syntex strategy.
