Contoso Electronics recognized an increase in delivery lead times as salespeople, customer service representatives, and the legal team had to spend hours searching through complicated document libraries for necessary contracts and purchase order information. Your company recognized a need to organize these document libraries and improve overall content understanding efficiency for clinicians; but first, a specific strategy was necessary for using Syntex to streamline content understanding processes.

You began by understanding how form processing and document understanding models could work for different types of documents within the organization:  

- Form processing models for patient intake forms and medical records  
- Document understanding models for summary letters of patient medical history  

You then saw how key Syntex roles such as SharePoint/Knowledge admin, Power Platform admin, knowledge manager, and model owner can correspond to already existing roles within the company. With these roles identified, you could then look at all the stakeholders within your organization and how they could contribute to the success of Syntex. And lastly, you saw the primary focus areas for creating a strong Syntex strategy, and how the various roles and stakeholders can play apart in this strategy.

Let’s think about how this scenario would have played out without creating a strong and thoughtful strategy for adopting Syntex:  

> Team members within different departments most likely would have taken it upon themselves to start implementing Syntex without a coordinated plan. One team member in each department might have created several content centers and applied AI Builder to document libraries as requested by various team members.  
>
> In this 'less than ideal’ situation, each department would not be aware of what other departments were creating on an ‘ad-hoc’ basis and all document libraries would start to look disjointed and out-of-sync. A customer service representative might go into one document library and find a completely different system than was used in another document library. Not to mention, team members would not be entirely clear on how to use Syntex as they did not receive the proper training and documentation to be set up for success, resulting in unnecessary time trying to learn the tool on their own. Also, executive teams and most of the company were not aware of this disparate Syntex adoption, so the tool was not widely endorsed or understood by most of the organization.

In the original, successful scenario, clear, thoughtful strategy for using Syntex eliminated confusion and ineffective adoption. By defining roles that made sense for your healthcare company and identifying key stakeholders, adoption leaders and the users themselves felt more confident in how to successfully apply Syntex for their organization’s needs. By creating a cohesive strategy for SharePoint Syntex, you can feel assured that your organization is using Syntex to its fullest potential and establishing an organized system for using Syntex going forward.