Setting a device's display capabilities and screen effects is an important part of getting the most from your computing environment. Many users find it important to have a crisp, sharp display that is capable of vibrant colors and fast movement.

For many people, changing the display options starts with right-clicking the desktop, and then selecting the **Display settings** menu item. This method opens the **Display** item in the **System** category of the Settings app. Here, you can configure a wide variety of settings. The **Display** item contains the following configurable items:

 -  **Rearrange your displays.** A large rectangle or multiple large rectangles at the top of the Display area represent your displays. When you have more than one display, you can change the placement of these display rectangles. For example, you can move one rectangle to the left and the other to the right. However, if you extend these displays, the mouse cursor will not necessarily move from left to right across the gap between displays as expected. To fix this issue, you can switch the two display rectangles - or more if you have them - so that the mouse's cursor moves between them.
    
    When multiple displays are connected, most settings on this page are independent for each monitor. When you review or change these settings, the setting will apply to the display you have selected here.
 -  **Identify**. If you have more than one display, each display rectangle will have a number on it, starting with the number 1. Even if you only have one display, you will see the rectangle with the number 1 on it. If you select the Identify hyperlink under the rectangle, a large number will appear in a pop-up window on your screen, corresponding to the displays you have. Therefore, if you have one display, you will see a pop-up window with a large number 1 on your only display. If you have two displays, one display will have a large number 1 in a pop-up window, while the other display will have a large number 2 in a pop-up window.
 -  **Detect**. When you select this hyperlink, it detects other displays that are connected, but that have not come up in the Display settings. However, any connected displays should show automatically.
 -  **Night light**. Monitors emit a blue light, which can impact sleep habits when using the computer in the evening. Night light allows users to set a warmer tone and optionally define a schedule to automatically turn on night light at a certain time.
 -  **Color Profile**. Color profiles can help monitors to display colors more accurately. This can be important for users working in graphics, video, or photography and want to ensure color consistency. Many monitor manufactures provide a color profile, usually with the driver. Users that report darkened or washed out colors, there is a good chance the profile is incorrectly set.
 -  **HDR**. High dynamic range offers a more vibrant picture, by increasing the range of colors displayed, which typically get lost in brighter or darker areas of content displayed without HDR. HDR capabilities are dependent on the display and graphics card, and if the app or game supports it. Most manufactures will indicate in the specs if hardware is HDR capable. Selecting HDR provides options for adjusting and fine-tuning settings if the hardware supports it.
 -  **Change the size of text, apps, and other items**. You can choose to scale the size from 100% to 225%. Selecting the **Advanced scaling settings** hyperlink allows you do set a custom size from 100-500%. This page also allows you to turn off ClearType, which is labeled as **Fix scaling for apps**. This is on by default to correct apps that may look fuzzy at different resolutions.
 -  **Resolution**. This drop-down box contains all the resolution sizes that are available to the graphics device and monitor that make up your display(s). Sizes will vary, but will usually show a "(Recommended)" indicator on the resolution that best matches the connected display's native resolution. Note that lower end graphics hardware may set to higher resolutions may introduce a significant performance impact.
 -  **Orientation**. Not all Windows devices will have this drop down option. Virtual machines and desktops normally do not, because this is primarily a mobility function. Tablets and certain laptops will change automatically from landscape to portrait view based on how users hold them, due to a gyroscopic sensor in the device. Not every device has such sensors, and the Display settings provide the orientation drop-down to manage this manually.
 -  **Multiple displays**. This drop-down list box is unavailable if you only have one display. The choices you can make include Duplicate these displays, Extend these displays, Show only on 1, Show only on 2, and more if you have more than two connected displays.
 -  **Make this my main display**. This check box is only available when you have two or more displays. You must select one of the large rectangular Display icons to make the change. Otherwise, the main display will be the monitor you are on, and because that is already the main display, it will be grayed out. The display that you select will be the display on which you sign in and get the first items on the desktop.
 -  **Apply**. Some of the changes will not take place until you select Apply. When you do so, the changed display appears with an overlay screen with a Keep these display settings? Reverting to previous display in x seconds message. The overlay screen also includes two options: Keep changes and Revert. If you select Keep changes, you will return to the Display Settings page with the new settings applied. If you select Revert - or wait for the seconds to elapse - the display reverts back to the way it was before you selected Apply. The Display Settings page appears again.
 -  **Advanced Display Settings**. This hyperlink takes you to another page that allows you to set the refresh rate of each connected display. Refresh rate determines how smooth motion appears on the screen. 60 Hz is common, meaning the display will refresh 60 times per second. Higher refresh rates consume more power, and are typically only increased to improve game performance.
 -  **Graphics Settings.** This hyperlink takes you to a page that allows you assign power profiles to specific applications. For example, you may normally operate in a power-saving profile to improve battery time, but may want to assign a high-performance profile to a video editing app, to avoid having users to understand and remember to change power settings for the entire device, and avoid calls to the help desk reporting poor performance.

### Other display settings

Some settings that impact display can be found in the **Ease of Access** group (Windows 10) or **Accessibility** group (Windows 11) in the Settings App. These options include:

 -  Size of the text and mouse pointer
 -  Text cursor size, color, and thickness
 -  Enabling or disabling visual effects, such as animations or transparencies.
 -  Color fiters and high-contrast settings

The **Personalization** category of the Settings app contains several configurable items that affect the display, such as background, colors, and other functions such as **Themes**, **Lock screen**, and **Start menu**.
