The Performance Monitor is a Microsoft Management Console (MMC) snap-in that you can use to obtain system performance information. You can use this tool to analyze the performance effect that applications and services have on a computer, and you can use it to obtain an overview of system performance or collect detailed information for troubleshooting. The Performance Monitor includes the following features:

 -  **Monitoring Tools**. The Monitoring Tools section contains the Performance Monitor, which provides a visual display of built-in Windows performance counters, either in real time or as historical data. The Performance Monitor includes the following features:
    
     -  Multiple graph views
     -  Custom views that you can export as data collector sets
 -  The Performance Monitor uses performance counters to measure the system’s state or activity. The operating system includes some performance counters and individual applications might include additional performance counters. The Performance Monitor requests the current value of performance counters at specified time intervals, by default every second. You can add performance counters to the Performance Monitor by dragging and dropping the counters, or by creating a custom data collector set. The Performance Monitor features multiple graph views that enable you to have a visual review of performance log data. You can create custom views in the Performance Monitor that you then can export as data collector sets for use with performance and logging features.
 -  **Data collector sets**. The data collector set is a custom set of performance counters, event traces, and system configuration data. After you create a combination of data collectors that describe useful system information, you then can save them as a data collector set, and then run and view the results. A data collector set organizes multiple data collection points into a single, portable component. You can use a data collector set on its own, group it with other data collector sets and incorporate it into logs, or view it in the Performance Monitor. You can configure a data collector set to generate alerts when it reaches thresholds. You also can configure a data collector set to run at a scheduled time, for a specific length of time, or until it reaches a predefined size. For example, you can run the data collector set for 10 minutes every hour during working hours to create a performance baseline. You also can set the data collector to restart when the collection reaches a set limit, so the Performance Monitor creates a separate file for each interval. Scheduled data collector sets collect data regardless of whether the Performance Monitor is started.
 -  **Reports**. Use the Reports feature to view and generate reports from a set of counters that you create by using data collector sets. The Performance Monitor creates a new report automatically every time a data collector set runs.
