## Microsoft communication and training resources ##
To help organizations assemble training content, the Microsoft FastTrack Productivity Library provides access to a comprehensive set of short, video-based training with step-by-step instructional guidance. There are hundreds of topics to choose from based on what’s important to the organization, such as creating more impactful content, sharing sites and content, transforming teamwork, and unlocking productivity with modern devices. For organizations using Microsoft 365 or Office 365, you may be eligible to receive help with driving user adoption via Microsoft’s FastTrack service. Representatives guide you through adoption best practices as you go through the Microsoft 365 rollout process of Windows, Office, and EMS.

Microsoft’s IT Showcase series is another great resource for Windows 10 deployment related content. It includes timelines and schedules, digital promotion templates, email templates, and Intranet content based on materials used for Microsoft’s own deployment of Windows 10, and it can be modified for any organization to use. These components and services together can be fine-tuned during the pilot phase. As you start to understand what training materials are most effective with your users, which devices to target, and which devices or user groups to avoid or delay implementation, IT can begin to broaden the deployment in later phases using a data and experience-driven approach. As the pilot expands, it’s critical to document and publish frequently asked questions and self-service content to help proactively reduce support tickets and helpdesk activities.
