Office applications are delivered and managed via the Office Deployment Tool which is the Office setup engine needed to download, configure, and customize your Office apps. The Office Deployment Tool reads a configuration XML file which provides the metadata instructions on how to configure and customization your Office installation. Microsoft recommends using the Office Customization Tool to customize your deployment settings and create your configuration XML file. Through the Office Customization Tool you can set which applications and languages will be installed, how the applications will be updated, application preferences, and installation experience settings.

If you use System Center Configuration Manager, you can still use it for broad deployment of Office 365 ProPlus. System Center Configuration Manager (current branch) has native support for the updated Office Customization Tool, package customization for Click-to-Run at install time, and native support for software update management post installation. For organizations using Microsoft Intune, admins can also assign Office 365 ProPlus applications to Windows 10 devices. Intune supports both 32-bit and 64-bit versions of Office 365 ProPlus, as well as the ability to leverage the RemoveMSI element to remove legacy Office from the computer.

## Upgrading from legacy Office to Office 365 ProPlus
It is recommended to uninstall any previous versions of Office before installing Office 365 ProPlus. To help uninstall versions of Office installed using MSI as the installation technology the Office Deployment Tool supports the ability to remove previous Office MSI installations. The RemoveMSI element can be used to uninstall Office 2010, 2013, or 2016 versions of Office, Visio, or Project that were installed using MSI. By specifying the RemoveMSI element in the configuration XML file we can:

- Uninstall all Office MSI products on the computer
- Identify any existing language resources, like language packs, and install the same languages for Office 365 ProPlus
- Keep some Office products, such as Project or Visio, and uninstall all other Office products on the computer

When leveraging the RemoveMSI element it is important to note that user settings, preferences, and documents are retained even if all Office products are uninstalled. While a reboot will not be enforced, it is required to finish the uninstallation of the MSI versions of Office from the computer. For removing Click-to-Run versions of Office from computers you can leverage the Office Deployment Tool or manage the uninstallation through Control Panel.
