Microsoft Store for Business provides a flexible way discover, acquire, manage, and distribute free and paid apps to Windows 10 devices at scale. IT admins can publish selected Microsoft Store apps, along with custom organizational apps, to your own private store while assigning and re-using licenses as needed. End users are directed to this private store only and can only find and install approved apps.

Store apps can be natively built as UWP apps or you can use the Desktop Bridge to repackage your existing apps for the Store and add modern experiences for Windows 10. Aside from the code that to light up Windows 10 experiences, your app remains unchanged and continues to run in full-trust user mode.

## MSIX 
A new option for application packaging is MSIX which uses the containerization technology available in Windows, bringing together the best aspects of Click-to-Run, UWP, and MSI packaging. With tools to migrate existing installers like EXE, MSI, APPV and APPX directly to MSIX we see MSIX Containerization provides a unified path for the many installation technologies in use today. MSIX support is included in current versions of Windows: any device running Windows 10 RS5 or newer includes everything you need to install and run MSIX packaged apps. Windows 10 dynamically integrates MSIX containers it receives, while keeping the applications separate from the operating system.

*Containerization* means clean uninstall and removal of packages, unlike a lot of MSI and EXE-based packages today that may leave items on the system. It also means only needing Standard User credentials to install applications – you do not have to have Administrator credentials to install MSIX containers. MSIX containers are more efficient to update too. When an update is published, use of block level differentials means only net new binaries are applied, reducing the update payload, for faster deployments consuming less network bandwidth.
