Windows has been around for over three decades, and the Windows operating system is widely adopted within organizations around the world. The Windows operating system is a stable and trusted platform that users install on commonly on server computers, desktop computers, laptops, and tablets. However, the Windows OS is not limited to just these platforms. Windows is also available for appliance devices as well. Microsoft Hololens and Xbox also run specialized versions of Windows.

In recent years, Microsoft sought to expand the range of devices that its client operating system supports. Windows is now more touch centric to enable users to utilize the OS on handheld devices such as tablets. Modifications to the operating system’s architecture enabled support for non-Intel, processor-based devices, including devices installed with ARM processors. Windows has also focused on cloud services integration and being part of a device ecosystem, from work to home to school to phone. The operating system allowed users to install small, more task-focused apps from an online store, similar to what users might do with their other computing devices, such as Android phones and tablets, or the Apple iPhone.

Windows 11 is the latest version of Microsoft’s client operating system. It offers many benefits over Windows 8.1 and provides numerous functional improvements. Windows 11 is built on the same foundation as Windows 10, with Windows 11 providing further enhancements to the OS. Thus, the tools and methods for managing Windows 10 and 11 clients are similar.

Prior to Windows 10, Microsoft would create a new version of their client operating system that capitalizes on the ongoing changes in computer hardware technology, and which acknowledges changes in the way users wish to work with their computing devices. These architectural updates often incorporate user-interface changes. Devices would be kept up to date through the Windows Update service, however these updates were typically maintenance-related. They generally focused on enhancing security, performance, and minor feature improvements.

Starting with Windows 10, Microsoft shifted from releasing a new version every few years to releasing new capabilities at regular intervals. Instead of replacing or upgrading the previous OS with a new version, new capabilities and features are delivered similarly to how OS updates are delivered. Even upgrading from Windows 10 to Windows 11 can be done using this service, as opposed to traditional upgrade method. This is also known as *Windows as a service*, which is covered in the next unit.

:::image type="content" source="../media/windows-11-desktop-199f43af.jpg" alt-text="The Windows 11 desktop, with the Start menu opened, showing pinned and recommended apps.":::
