Mobile device Management (MDM) enables you to manage your users’ devices so you can secure your organization’s resources and data. For example, you can use MDM to configure device security settings on enrolled devices and require a user to enter a PIN to unlock their device. 
Mobile application management (MAM) enables an administrator to manage apps installed on devices, but not necessarily the devices themselves. So, for example, you could create an Intune MAM policy that controls whether a user can save corporate date to their    OneDrive. 
MDM is implemented by using an MDM authority and MDM clients. Microsoft offers two MDM authority solutions: Intune, and MDM for Office 365. MDM client functionality is included as part of the Windows 10 operating system. MDM authority can manage various devices that include MDM client functionality, such as Android, iOS and Windows 10. Some device settings can be managed on all MDM-enrolled devices while other settings are device-specific and can only be configured using device-specific MDM policies.

MDM functionality includes distribution of applications, data, and configuration settings to devices that are enrolled to MDM. Windows 10 devices can be enrolled in MDM manually by using the Settings app, by applying a provisioning package  , or by Group Policy in a hybrid environment. Alternatively, devices can be enrolled in Azure AD providing integration between Azure AD and MDM is configured. You can use MDM to manage a device regardless of its domain membership. 
An MDM authority such as Intune provides the following capabilities:

- **Device enrollment**. MDM can manage only supported devices that are enrolled in MDM. A device can include MDM client functionality such as Windows 10, or you must install the Intune Company Portal app to be able to manage it; for example, on Android or iOS devices.
- **Configuring devices**. You can use profiles and policies to configure devices, control user access, and set device settings to comply with company policy. You can also configure Wi-Fi profiles and virtual-private network (VPN) profiles and control access to company resources by using conditional access.
- **Monitoring and reporting**. In the MDM management tool, you can receive notifications about devices that have issues or if the MDM policy wasn’t successfully applied, such as when devices do not comply with a company baseline. You can also add enrolled devices to groups and   view a list of enrolled devices. Using Intune, you can also configure Windows Autopilot device deployment.
- **Application Management**. By using MDM and MAM together, you can deploy applications, manage their settings, and separate data created by personal and business apps.
- **Selective delete data**. If a device is lost or stolen, or if the user is no longer with the company, you can wipe company data that was stored on the device. You can wipe all device data, or perform a selective wipe, which leaves personal user data on the device.