Data is an important organizational asset and must always be protected, whether it’s at rest, in use, or in transit. Loss of data through compromise or loss can have a detrimental impact to an organization. It’s important to define a data protection strategy for the various states that data can be in.  

**Data at rest**. Data at rest is most often referring to email and documents stored somewhere, for example on a file server, a hard drive or USB flash drive, or in a mailbox. Each of these storage locations poses different security risks. For example, it’s fairly easy to lose a thumb drive; a laptop is an attractive device for theft; malicious people know that a file server contains organizational data. Each of these situations presents a different challenge for security personnel to solve, whether that’s by using drive encryption, intellectual rights management software, or network security such as firewalls and antimalware. 

**Data in transit**. Any time data moves between locations it’s at risk. For example, when a user reads their email on their mobile device, the email message is pushed to that device. It’s important that not only is the data protected while in transit to the device, but that the data is sent to the correct device and that it is protected while on the device as well. Authentication and encryption are the two technologies used to help ensure safe transit of data to and from users’ devices, or between locations within your environment. 

**Data in use**. When a piece of data such as an email or a document is opened (whether that be in a browser or within an app) that data is considered Data in use. When the information is rendered and viewable, it is stored in memory on a device and sometimes stored in a temporary file on a disk. If this information is sensitive in nature, it is a target of bad actors, malware and other nefarious acts. 
