Traditional perimeter-based network defenses have become a thing of the past. The proliferation of devices, mobile work forces, and the blending of work and home scenarios for workers make perimeter-based security controls problematic and near impossible to enforce. Also, once malware takes over a single endpoint, that malware can quickly expand across an entire network. Enter zero trust—a framework that prevents all access to network resources and requires devices to attest that to adherence against a configured set of policies. These policies can vary based on the resources being accessed, and typically check for decision factors such as patch levels, enforce elevated authentication through multi-factor authentication and may apply restrictions to the actions users can take against the resource.

Zero trust protects corporate data while ensuring that their workers can be productive, wherever they are, on any compliant device. Network security implementations help enable zero-trust scenarios.

**DDoS Protection**. Distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks are some of the largest availability and security concerns facing customers that are moving their applications to the cloud. Azure DDoS  protection provides the following service tiers:
- Basic: Automatically enabled as part of the Azure platform. Always-on traffic monitoring, and real-time mitigation of common network-level attacks, provide the same defenses used by Microsoft’s online services. The scale of Azure’s global network can be used to distribute and mitigate attack traffic across regions. Protection is provided for IPv4 and IPv6 Azure public IP addresses.
- Standard: Provides additional mitigation capabilities over the Basic service tier that are tuned specifically to Azure Virtual Network resources. DDoS Protection Standard is simple to enable and requires no application changes. Protection policies are tuned through dedicated traffic monitoring and machine learning algorithms. Policies are applied to public IP addresses associated to resources deployed in virtual networks, such as Azure Load Balancer, Azure Application Gateway, and Azure Service Fabric instances, but this protection does not apply to App Service Environments. Real-time telemetry is available through Azure Monitor views during an attack, and for history. Rich attack mitigation analytics are available via diagnostic settings.

**Firewall settings**. If a device lacks a properly configured firewall, then every time it connects to a network it’s at risk. This is especially true if the device connects to public, unsecured networks such as Wi-Fi hotspots. Firewalls block or allow network traffic based on the traffic’s properties. You can utilize hardware-based firewalls or software firewalls that run on a device (known as host firewalls). 
- Azure Firewall is a managed, cloud-based network security service that protects your Azure Virtual Network resources. It is a fully stateful firewall as a service with built-in high availability and unrestricted cloud scalability. You can centrally create, enforce, and log application and network connectivity policies across subscriptions and virtual networks.
- Web application firewall (WAF) is a feature of Application Gateway that provides centralized protection of your web applications from common exploits and vulnerabilities. Web applications are increasingly targets of malicious attacks that exploit common known vulnerabilities. Common among these exploits are SQL injection attacks, cross site scripting attacks and more. WAF in the Azure Application gateway can by protecting your web application from web vulnerabilities and attacks without modification to backend code.

**Network Segmentation** makes it difficult for attackers to gain complete access to your network. Network segmentation separates your network into smaller groups of systems, each with separate access controls. If malware takes root in one of your network segments, it can help isolate other areas of your network. 
- Micro segmentation ensures that resources are placed in an appropriately secured network segment. For example, if you need basic network level access control (based on IP address and the TCP or UDP protocols), you can use Network Security Groups (NSGs) that provides a basic, stateful, packet filtering firewall. Service endpoints are another way to apply control over your traffic. You can limit communication with supported services to just your virtual networks over a direct connection. Traffic from your virtual networks to the specified Azure service remains on the Microsoft Azure backbone network. 
