Threats to your organization’s data and infrastructure can originate from many different areas including identities, endpoints, user data, cloud apps, and infrastructure. Bad actors use increasingly sophisticated attacks, many of which go to great lengths to evade detection. 

- **Protect**. Configure your devices, users, and data to help prevent attacks and malware from getting into your organization. Ensuring you have the right services enabled, configured correctly and enforcing the level of protection you require is the first step, without which there is no signal to help detect and respond to attacks. You can also run simulated attacks against your users and environment to test and support your workforce with end-user training to help them spot common attacks, such as phishing attempts and physical device security. Beyond device security, you also need to consider network security. There are numerous possible forms of network attacks, which can be thwarted by proper network access planning. You must take a holistic approach to identify each possible threat, and then plan mitigation for it. Examples include requiring rigorous authentication from connecting devices. 
- **Detect**. Having the right tools to monitor devices, users, data and apps helps security teams monitor the health of their organization. Many organizations are a complex web of devices, users, and infrastructure and signals can come from a variety of sources. Cutting through the noise to get to real issues is critical for security teams to address the real problems. Many tools in Microsoft 365 provide detection capabilities for suspicious activity. For example, Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection uses artificial intelligence to automatically detect and stop many types of suspicious activities. The value of adopting integrated security services is the correlation of signals across elements, leveraging highly scalable machine learning to spot seemingly unrelated activities that may in fact be part of the same attack.
- **Respond**. In the event of a breach, security teams need to respond quickly to contain the damage and prevent further damage. Large organizations need to review and triage incoming issues easily and Microsoft 365 security features supporting incident management and alerts can help security teams respond to issues more quickly. It is preferable to leverage automation to respond to known attacks and elevate to a human resource only when there is a new activity or for an escalated response. 