DLP reports a vast amount of information into Microsoft Purview from monitoring, policy matches and actions, and user activities. Organizations should consume and act on that information to tune their policies and triage actions taken on sensitive items. The customer content goes into the Microsoft Purview compliance portal Audit Logs first. It's then processed, and finally makes its way to different reporting tools. Each reporting tool has a different purpose. This unit introduces you to three key DLP policy reporting tools.

### DLP Alerts Dashboard

When DLP takes an action on a sensitive item, you can be notified of that action through a configurable alert. Rather than having these alerts pile up in a mailbox for administrators to sift through, the Microsoft Purview compliance portal makes them available in the DLP Alerts Management Dashboard. Organizations can use the DLP Alerts dashboard to:

 -  configure DLP alerts
 -  review them
 -  triage them
 -  track their resolution

The following screenshot from a Windows 10 device is an example of an alert generated by a policy match and an activity.

:::image type="content" source="../media/alert-info-dlp-dashboard-2b5b6983.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the D L P Alerts Management dashboard showing the Details tab for an alert.":::


You can also view details of the associated event with rich metadata in the same dashboard.

:::image type="content" source="../media/event-info-dlp-dashboard-86f9550c.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the D L P Alerts Management dashboard showing the Details tab for an event related to an alert.":::


### DLP reports

The DLP reports show broad trends over time and give specific insights into:

 -  DLP Policy Matches over time and filter by date range, location, policy, or action.
 -  DLP incident matches also shows matches over time, but pivots on the items rather than the policy rules.
 -  DLP false positives and overrides shows the count of false positives and, if configured, user-overrides along with the user justification.

DLP reports are examined in greater detail in the next unit.

### DLP Activity explorer

The **Activity explorer** tab on the **Data loss prevention** page has the **Activity** filter preset to **DLPRuleMatch**. This tool enables organizations to review activity related to content that contains sensitive information or has labels applied. It displays what labels were changed, files that were modified, and a matched rule.

:::image type="content" source="../media/dlp-activity-explorer-f3f0ca61.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Activity Explorer showing the results of using the D L P Rule Match filter.":::


The Activity explorer is examined in greater detail in a later module.
