In Microsoft 365, you can use a Data Loss Prevention (DLP) policy to identify, monitor, and protect sensitive information. Many organizations already have a process to identify and classify sensitive information by using either the classification properties in Windows Server File Classification Infrastructure (FCI), the document properties in SharePoint, or the document properties applied by a third-party system.

If this scenario describes your organization, you can create a DLP policy in Microsoft 365 that recognizes the properties that have been applied to documents by Windows Server FCI or other system. In doing so, the DLP policy can be enforced on Office documents with specific FCI or other property values.

:::image type="content" source="../media/dlp-policy-windows-server-fci-84aad3a9.png" alt-text="graphic showing DLP policy in Microsoft 365 applied to document by Windows Server FCI":::


For example, your organization may use Windows Server FCI to identify documents with personal information such as social security numbers or credit card numbers. Given the type and number of occurrences of personal information found in the document, you can then classify it by setting the **Personally Identifiable Information** property to **High**, **Moderate**, **Low**, **Public**, or **Not PII**.

In Microsoft 365, you can create a DLP policy that identifies documents that have that property set to specific values, such as **High** and **Medium**, and then takes an action such as blocking access to those files. The same policy can have another rule that takes a different action if the property is set to **Low**, such as sending an email notification. In this way, DLP in Microsoft 365 integrates with Windows Server FCI and can help protect Office documents uploaded or shared to Microsoft 365 from Windows Server–based file servers.

A DLP policy simply looks for a specific property name/value pair. Any document property can be used, as long as the property has a corresponding managed property for SharePoint search. For example, a SharePoint site collection might use a content type named **Trip Report** with a required field named **Customer**. Whenever a person creates a trip report, they must enter the customer name. This property name/value pair can also be used in a DLP policy. For example, you could create a rule that blocks access to a document for external users when the **Customer** field contains **Contoso.**
