When you depend on cloud service providers, you are relying on them to keep your data safe. This could be from loss, theft, or misuse by third parties, including other customers, employees of the hosting company, and even users within your own organization. As more and more customers are relying on cloud service providers to keep their data safe, cloud services raise unique privacy questions for businesses. This is because organizations have legal obligations to ensure the privacy of their employees, customers, and clients. 
Laws prohibit some data from being used for a reason other than the purpose for which the data was originally collected. In addition, when you collect and store data in the cloud, you are subject to legal requirements, such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) or the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA), just as if you were storing data on premise. If you work with European companies or customers, you must also adhere to EU privacy laws. 

So, what does this mean for a company considering adopting cloud computing? You need to ensure your cloud service provider is helping safeguard privacy by: 

- **Reading the cloud service provider’s privacy notices.** These specify how data is accessed by users and how it can be deleted or modified. In addition, you need to know where data is actually kept, how data is backed up and how often, and where the backups are stored. In some instances, there may be data that must remain in a certain geopolitical region  
- **Considering how the cloud service provider handles disaster recovery and organizations’ continuity.** You must ensure that backups are being created on a regular basis, data is being replicated to another site, and that the services are duplicated on another site. 
- **Considering how the hosting company handles security breaches.** Also, check the disclosure policy to see how quickly your cloud service provider will disclose a breach to you, in the event one occurs."  There are laws that require you to be informed promptly of any breaches. 
