Many organizations have regulations and policies that they must comply with to operate in various industries. For example, companies working in the health industry have to follow HIPAA. These policies can be quite complex based on the type of industry, geographical location of the organization, and company-based policies. Further complicating matters is the fact that legal and regulatory bodies might change the responsibilities of both the cloud-computing tenants and providers.  

An organization that doesn't protect its data could be subject to a fine by one or more government or industry regulatory bodies. Some of these fines can be substantial, crippling a small or mid-sized organization. 

Laws or regulations typically specify who within an organization should be held responsible for data accuracy and security. For example, the Sarbanes–Oxley Act designates the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) as having joint responsibility for the financial data, while the Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act specifies that the responsibility for security lies within the entire board of directors. These both contrast with the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC), which requires a specific individual to be accountable for the information security program within a company. 

All these regulations pertain to cloud computing. If you store any of your data in the cloud, you must ensure that your cloud service provider follows all legal and regulatory requirements. Remember, it’s still your responsibility to ensure these requirements are met, so do your due diligence before signing any contract. Then after the contract is signed, take steps to ensure that compliance is maintained to protect your company and your customers. 
