Your organization regularly makes video-based content to improve learning and organization-wide communication. You want to help your organization improve how users engage with this content.

## What is Microsoft Stream

Microsoft Stream is a video service that allows members of your organization to upload, watch, and share videos in a secure manner. Microsoft Stream makes it possible for you to share video content of meetings, training sessions, classes, and live events to help facilitate collaboration for your organization's teams.

:::image type="content" source="../media/5-watch-video.png" alt-text="Microsoft Stream":::

To enable Microsoft Stream for your users, your organization can assign Microsoft Stream licenses to them from the Microsoft 365 admin center. This way, they won't have to manually sign up for the service.

## Create and manage content

There are different ways for users to create content on Microsoft Stream. For example:

- Create live events for up to 10,000 people.
- Create presentations.
- Create surveys, quizzes, or polls for videos.
- Automatically add captions to videos.

Microsoft Stream also makes it easy to share content with others. Users are able to share content via email, or by copying and pasting a direct link to the content, or through Yammer, so users can view the content directly in Yammer.

### Control access

Microsoft Stream gives your organization detailed control about how content is viewed or accessed.

For example, users can create channels and groups to categorize and organize content. Microsoft Stream provides detailed permissions to customize who can view the content, on an individual user level, at the group, or channel level. You can take advantage of other control measures including:

- Adding usage guidelines.
- Blocking sign-ups.
- Restricting uploaders.
- Restricting channel creation.

### Use audit logs

Microsoft Stream helps keep track of how users are engaging with the service. It provides audit logs that your organization can use to investigate and monitor activities in Microsoft Stream. For example, to help meet regulatory compliance and data management requirements, your organization can find information about who has taken a particular action on a certain item at a specified point in time.

Microsoft Stream's audit logs can be found in Microsoft 365 audit logs. To access logs, your organization must have:

- Either the Microsoft 365 Global Admin or Exchange admin role.
- A valid Exchange Online license.
- A valid Exchange mailbox license.

### Use Microsoft Stream with other apps

Microsoft Stream seamlessly integrates with other Microsoft 365 apps like Yammer, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, and more. Your users can use single-sign on to easily work across Microsoft Stream and these other apps.

## Discover content

Microsoft Stream is designed to help users find and keep track of the content across your organization.

Users can search and find videos by putting search terms in the search field.

:::image type="content" source="../media/5-discover-content.png" alt-text="Discover Content":::

The results are categorized for users into videos, channels, people, and groups.

Microsoft Stream will not just look at the description or title of a video when searching for content. It will actively search through what is actually being said in a video to see if it matches a user's search terms.

Microsoft Stream will show a matching video, and display the time codes for when search terms have been matched in a video. Users can select matching parts of the video to start playing the video from that point:

:::image type="content" source="../media/5-display-time-codes.png" alt-text="Display Time Codes":::

## Stream with built-in intelligence

Microsoft Stream uses the power of Microsoft artificial intelligence technologies to help your users get the most out of content. Users can take advantage of the following capabilities:

### Autogenerated captions and transcript mode

Microsoft Stream uses Automatic Speech Recognition technology to generate captions on videos if users set the video's language field to one of the supported languages. Microsoft Stream can also generate a scrolling transcript that users can use to follow spoken content in a video. Users can also go back through the transcript once the video is finished.

:::image type="content" source="../media/5-generate-transcript.png" alt-text="Generate a Transcript":::

### People detection

If enabled, Microsoft Stream can also detect who is in a video and provide a timeline showing where a particular person is active in a video. This way, users can follow a particular person or team's contribution in a video.

:::image type="content" source="../media/5-people-detection.png" alt-text="People Detection":::
