Windows 10 Enterprise is one of the central pillars of your Microsoft 365 subscription. Learn about what Windows 10 Enterprise has to offer.

## Intelligent security
Windows 10 protects, detects, and automatically responds to the most advanced malware and hacking threats, while safeguarding user identities, devices, and business information. Leveraging the Intelligent Security Graph (ISG) to gain insight from vast security intelligence, machine learning, and behavioral analytics, Windows 10 investigates evolving threats and automates remediation to speed up response times. These built-in security solutions provide IT with end-to-end security lifecycle management for endpoint protection (EPP) and detection and response (EDR). It also integrates with Microsoft 365 systems to cover even the most complex multi-platform environments. 

- **Threat protection** - Windows 10 threat protection includes next generation malware and hacking defense that protects against threats including zero-day attacks. It provides a hardened platform that can prevent encounters, isolate threats and control the execution of malicious apps and content. Using behavior-based analytics, machine learning, and the Intelligent Security Graph, Windows 10 is able to detect and respond to the most advanced threats and it can automatically remediate them.  Threat protection includes:
   - Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (ATP)
   - Windows Defender Application Guard
   - Windows Defender Application Control
   - Windows Defender Antivirus
   - Bitlocker

- **Identity protection** - Windows 10 protects users identities against pass-the-hash and pass-the-ticket attacks, allowing organizations to accelerate to a world without passwords. Windows Hello is a biometric authentication tool that strengthens authentication and helps guard against potential spoofing. Windows 10 also has a multifactor password alternative that is built in, easy to use, standards based, and will work on any Windows 10 device. Identity protection features include:
   - Windows Hello for business
   - Windows Defender Credential Guard
   - Windows Defender System Guard

- **Information protection** -  Windows 10 makes it easy to protect data at rest and in use. Windows Information Protection delivers the capability users need for protecting information from top leak cases. When combined with Azure Information Protection and Office 365, users get a sophisticated solution that meets the highest requirements for data loss prevention with minimal input needed. Information protection features include Windows Information Protection.

## Flexible management
With Windows 10 flexible device management options, you can deploy, manage, and update devices anywhere your employees need to work from. It’s predicted that 43% of the Global Workforce will be mobile by 2021. To support the need to get new devices up and running fast, **Windows Autopilot** provides a tailored device set-up experience that requires minimal IT effort, and without the employee needing to even visit the IT helpdesk. Windows 10 supports **Mobile Device Management** that lets you implement unified end-point management, providing a secure and uniform means of managing devices. With **Mobile Application Management**, Windows 10 lets you control corporate identities, data, and apps on personal devices without impacting personal data. When you're ready to fully take advantage of the cloud for device management, Windows 10 gives you the tools to modernize at your pace. Windows 10 supports the transition to cloud-based device management, with the ability to co-manage devices in Intune and Config Manager, using both Active Directory and Azure Active Directory together. 
- **Windows Autopilot** transforms a brand new device in to a business-ready and cloud-managed state, without you needing to touch it. By integrating with Azure Active Directory and Microsoft Intune, Windows Autopilot lets you provision your organization’s policies, settings, and apps like Microsoft Office 365 ProPlus.
- **Shared Windows devices** minimize the work to deploy, manage, and monitor shared Windows devices for firstline kiosks.
- **Mobile Device Management** transforms the way you manage Windows devices, adopting simpler and easier approaches that leverage cloud-based services. It also helps you modernize Windows 10 management while maintaining System Center Configuration Manager. Leverage the most advanced capabilities available in System Center Configuration Manager while moving to Microsoft Intune.
- **Windows Subscriptions** let you assign Windows 10 Enterprise to users, effectively stepping up from Pro to Enterprise without rebooting. 


## Simplified updates 
Being up to date is the foundation of modern IT, and Windows 10 is here to help. Maximize security and productivity by staying current with Windows 10. The way we update Windows has completely changed, moving away from major upgrades every few years to feature updates twice per year. To support the semi-annual release cadence, Windows 10 provides the modern tools and insights needed to transform the way you do IT, with application compatibility you can trust. 99% of applications that run on Windows 7 will run on Windows 10, so getting current is easier than ever. With Windows Analytics, customers can upgrade to Windows 10 and keep it current, with confidence from telemetry based actionable analytics. In addition, Windows 10 provides IT with the flexibility and control to easily manage and distribute updates using their current method or leverage Microsoft’s infrastructure. With every release, Windows updates become smaller, and easier to distribute so that it’s less disruptive to the organization. 
- **Windows Analytics Upgrade Readiness** provides computer, application, driver, web page, and Office add-in inventory.  It integrates data from Ready for Windows to minimize application compatibility testing and facilitate upgrading to Windows 10 faster than ever before. 
- **Windows Analytics Update Compliance** supports feature update, quality update, and Windows Defender definition deployment status reporting and troubleshooting empowering IT to keep all devices up to date with the latest security, quality, and productivity improvements. 
- **Windows Analytics Device Health** provides Windows 10, driver and application reliability information; network and logon health; as well as performance degradation details. IT can address issues proactively minimizing employee impact and help desk call volume.
- **Windows as a service** - Ensure your users and devices are safe and productive with the latest feature and quality updates. Organizations can easily manage and distribute updates using their current method or leveraging Microsoft’s infrastructure. To reduce bandwidth usage Windows 10 offers express updates and peer-to-peer distribution. 
- **In-place upgrades** - For those upgrading from Windows 7 or Windows 8.1, upgrading to Windows 10 is simple, easy, and cost-effective using 

## Enhanced productivity 
An intuitive experience with built in tools and features that help your employees collaborate and work efficiently

## Work smarter
- **Enterprise search in Windows** brings intelligent search right to  users’ taskbar, enabling them to find what they need faster – whether it’s apps, settings, documents, email messages, company resources, web results, people, Power BI dashboards, and more.  Enterprise search will surface results across local and cloud locations, with integrated options to take immediate action from the results.
- **Windows user experience** - with the core user experience features in Windows, users can take control of their digital workspace, to focus on their work. New features like the Windows Timeline help users stay in the flow, giving them a chronological view of their activities and documents, so they can jump right back in where they left off on a project or document. 
- **Microsoft Edge**** is designed for Windows 10 to offer users faster, safer ways to get work done, across their PC and their phone.  Built-in tools make it easy for users to keep tabs organized, write on web pages for simple idea sharing and collaboration, and ask Cortana to find answers or pull in web info. without leaving the site they’re are on.
- **Cortana** acts as a personal digital assistant, helping people manage their schedules, commitments, and important tasks they need to remember day to day.  Cortana syncs across phones, PCs, ortablets, enabling users to seamlessly move from one device to the next, and get their work done anywhere. 
Cultivate collaboration
- **Office 365 on Windows** - together, Windows and Office equip users and teams with a comprehensive set of apps and services. The OneDrive experience on Windows allows users to see and work with online-only files in File Explorer, with enhanced activity indicators. On Windows, the digital pen2 becomes a powerful Office document editing tool, and users can leverage 3D to create more visually compelling content. Office apps sync across Android and iOS.
- **Microsoft Whiteboard** on Windows 10 gives users a digital canvas where people – in the same room, or collaborating remotely – ideas, and content can come together.
- **OneNote** - included with Windows, OneNote gives users one place to organize notes and ideas. OneNote syncs instantly across devices and integrates with Windows features such as Timeline, Sticky Notes, Windows Ink, and Cortana.  OneNote syncs across Android and iOS.

## Empower workstyles
- **Work across devices** - With Continue on PC, users can easily move from one device to another, continuing an activity right where they left off. Microsoft Edge creates
continuous browsing for Windows 10 users across their devices, syncing content and data seamlessly and safely. Users can even send and receive SMS text messages from their computer. 
- **Windows devices** - whether users are scattered remotely, in an office, or on the road, Windows 10 has them covered – with hardware options ranging from the Surface Hub to the new always-connected PCs, to support users wherever they need or prefer to work. 
- **Accessibility** - Windows comes with a robust set of accessibility features, such as narrator, word prediction, and eye control.  Intelligence-enabled capabilities, such as machine-generated descriptions of pictures, provide a more seamless experience for users. 
- **Windows Ink** - using the digital pen2 in Windows is as fast and familiar as putting a pen to a piece of paper. Users can annotate or edit Office documents, and ideate with peers in collaborative mediums like Microsoft Whiteboard.  Without ever needing to put their pen down, users can navigate within Windows, write into any text or search box, and take notes quickly, even before logging in.
- **3D in Windows 10** - users can add dimension to PowerPoint presentations – with fully rotatable 360 degree models, morphing transitions, and animations – or Word documents, Excel spreadsheets, and Outlook emails.