Exchange Online is a messaging and collaboration platform that provides one location for composing, reading, and storing email, calendar, contact, and task information. You can access this information with Microsoft Outlook, Outlook Web Access, or Outlook Mobile. Exchange Online supports access from most mobile devices, including Android, iOS, and Windows 10 devices. 

Some features of Exchange Online include:

- **Mailboxes and online archives**. Individual users have their own mailboxes. Some plans also include an online archive for additional storage.
- **Calendars**. Each user has a calendar that they can use to track upcoming events and check availability when booking meetings. Where appropriate, users can delegate access to their calendars to other users, like administrative assistants and teammates. 
- **View and edit Office attachments online**. Users can view and edit Office attachments online in Outlook on the web. (They don't need a locally installed version of Office.)
- **Shared mailboxes and resources**. Groups of users can use shared mailboxes to share information. You can configure resources for meeting rooms and equipment to facilitate booking. 
- **Public folders**. Exchange online supports public folders for collaboration.
- **Message policy and compliance**. Exchange Online includes message policy and compliance features like retention policies, message encryption, eDiscovery, data loss prevention, and journaling. 
- **Antispam and anti-malware**. All Exchange Online subscriptions include Exchange Online Protection, which provides configurable antispam and anti-malware scanning.
- **Configurable mail flow**. To support specialized mail flow (hybrid, partner, or third-party service scenarios), you can create inbound and outbound connectors in Office 365. For example, you can create connectors that use additional security settings for mail flow with a business partner. 
- **Mobile and multiplatform access**. Users can access mailboxes and calendars from Outlook on either Windows or Mac clients by using Messaging Application Programming Interface (MAPI) over HTTPS or Microsoft Graph. Exchange Web Services is still supported but if you’re updating or creating an app, use Microsoft Graph instead. Outlook on the web supports accessing mailboxes and calendars from almost any platform. Mobile devices can access mailboxes and calendars by using Exchange ActiveSync.  
- **Hybrid deployment**. You can integrate Exchange Online with an on-premises Exchange Server organization by implementing a hybrid deployment. In a hybrid deployment, Exchange Online and the on-premises Exchange organization can share a single namespace for messaging. A hybrid deployment also supports calendar sharing and mailbox moves between Exchange Online and an on-premises Exchange server.
- **Migration tools**. Exchange Online includes tools to migrate from other on-premises Exchange Server servers to Exchange Online. There is also a tool to migrate from any Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) messaging service to Exchange Online.

## Compare Exchange Online to Exchange Server

To determine whether Exchange Online is right for your organization, you must understand the differences between Exchange Online and an on-premises Exchange Server. Some of these differences are:

- **Unlimited storage**. Many on-premises deployments of Exchange Server place relatively low limits on mailbox sizes, such as one or two gigabytes (GB). Exchange Online supports larger mailboxes of 50 GB or larger depending on the plan you have purchased.
- **High availability**. For an on-premises Exchange Server, you need to purchase and configure hardware to store multiple mailbox copies and configure load balancing to achieve high availability. For true high availability, you also need an alternate datacenter. Whereas Exchange Online is automatically highly available with your data replicated to multiple datacenters.
- **Backups**. With Exchange Server, you need to manage your own backups. Exchange Online does not have any built-in methods for configuring backups. Instead, it replicates data across multiple servers and datacenters, and you configure retention through single-item recovery and litigation hold.    
- **Automatic integration with other Office 365 features**. Exchange Online offers additional features such as Office 365 groups, which integrate multiple Office 365 features together. Another example is the online viewing and editing of Office email attachments.
- **New features**. Exchange Online has many features that do not exist in an on-premises Exchange server. It is possible that some of these features will be integrated into on-premises Exchange server in the future, but they will always appear first in Exchange Online because development happens there first.
- **No access to Exchange Online databases or servers**. Unlike an on-premises Exchange server where you administer and manage Exchange servers and databases, Microsoft manages these items in Exchange Online.