The Microsoft Defender for identity portal is used for administrators to monitor and respond to detected suspicious activity. The portal provides a quick view of all suspicious activity in chronological order. It enables administrators to filter out specific details of any activity and gives actions based on those activities. The Defender for Identity portal also shows alerts and notifications that highlight problems detected by the Defender for Identity service.

### Review and update security alerts on the attack timeline

The Attack timeline is the default landing page you're taken to when you sign in to the Defender for Identity portal. By default, all open suspicious activities are shown on the attack timeline in chronological order, with the newest alert on the top of the timeline. You can filter the attack timeline to show all, Open, Dismissed or Suppressed suspicious activities. You can also see the severity assigned to each activity.

:::image type="content" source="../media/defender-for-identity-timeline-992f99b7.png" alt-text="screenshot of the timeline page in the Defender for Identity portal":::


Each security alert has the following information:

 -  Entities involved, including users, computers, servers, domain controllers, and resources.<br>
 -  Times and time frame of the suspicious activities that started the security alert.<br>
 -  Severity of the alert: High, Medium, or Low.<br>
 -  Status: Open, closed, or suppressed.<br>
 -  Ability to:<br>
    
     -  Share the security alert with other people in your organization via email.
     -  Download the security alert in Excel format.

When you hover your mouse over a user or computer in the attack timeline, a mini entity profile is displayed. The mini-profile provides extra information about the entity and includes the number of security alerts the entity is linked to. Selecting an entity takes you to the entity profile of the user or computer.

Security alerts that are generated by Defender for Identity are divided into the following categories or phases, which are similar to the phases seen in a typical cyber-attack kill chain:<br>

 -  [Reconnaissance alerts](/defender-for-identity/reconnaissance-alerts?azure-portal=true)
 -  [Compromised credential alerts](/defender-for-identity/compromised-credentials-alerts?azure-portal=true)
 -  [Lateral movement alerts](/defender-for-identity/lateral-movement-alerts?azure-portal=true)
 -  [Domain dominance alerts](/defender-for-identity/domain-dominance-alerts?azure-portal=true)
 -  [Exfiltration alerts](/defender-for-identity/exfiltration-alerts?azure-portal=true)

You can change the status of a security alert by selecting the status of the security alert and selecting one of the available options. To change an alert status, select the three dots at the top-right corner of a specific alert to reveal the list of available actions, which include:

 -  **Open.** All new security alerts appear in this list.
 -  **Close.** Is used to track security alerts that you identified, researched, and fixed for mitigated.
 -  **Suppress.** Suppressing an alert means you want to ignore it for now, and only be alerted again if there's a new instance. This situation means that if there's a similar alert, Defender for Identity doesn't reopen it. But if the alert stops for seven days, and is then seen again, a new alert is opened.
 -  **Delete.** If you Delete an alert, it will be deleted from the system, from the database, and you won't be able to restore it. After you select delete, you can delete all security alerts of the same type.
 -  **Exclude.** The ability to exclude an entity from raising more of a certain type of alerts. For example, you can set Defender for Identity to exclude a specific entity (user or computer) from alerting again for a certain type of activity, such as a specific admin who runs remote code or a security scanner that does DNS reconnaissance. Besides adding exclusions directly on the security alert as it's detected in the timeline, you can also go to the Configuration page to **Exclusions**, and for each security alert you can manually add and remove excluded entities or subnets (for example for Pass-the-Ticket).

From the Defender for Identity timeline, select any entity in your network (domain controller, machine, or user) as the filter access point. Next, select to filter by the **Security Alert**, **Activity** type, or any combination. Once the filter is applied, the threat timeline of the entity is updated with the filtered information. Your filtered alerts and activities can also be downloaded to continue your investigation or tracking in other tools.

:::image type="content" source="../media/defender-for-identity-threat-timeline-with-filter-fcf6924b.png" alt-text="screenshot of the threat timeline with filter page in the Defender for Identity portal":::


### Preview detections

Microsoft's Defender for Identity research team constantly works on implementing new detections for newly discovered attacks. Because Defender for Identity is a cloud service, new detections are released quickly to enable Defender for Identity customers to immediately benefit from new detections.

These detections are tagged with a preview badge to help you identify the new detections and know that they're new to the product. If you turn off preview detections, they won't be displayed in the Defender for Identity console - not in the timeline or in entity profiles - and new alerts won't be opened.

:::image type="content" source="../media/defender-for-identity-preview-detection-0c06372e.png" alt-text="screenshot showing preview badges in the Defender for Identity portal":::


Preview detections are enabled by default in Defender for Identity.

### Using the Search bar

A search bar is located in the top menu. It can be used to search for a specific user, computer, or groups in Defender for Identity. To begin searching, just start typing. The number of search results that were found is displayed at the bottom of the search bar.

By selecting the number of search results found, the administrator can filter results by entity type for further investigation.

:::image type="content" source="../media/defender-for-identity-search-1eeccc31.png" alt-text="screenshot of the seach results pane in the Defender for Identity portal":::


### Monitoring the Health center

The Health center provides alerts when something isn't working properly in the Defender for Identity instance. Whenever the system finds a problem, such as a connectivity error or a disconnected Defender for Identity standalone sensor, the Health Center icon lets the administrator know by displaying a red dot in the Health Center (heart) icon.

:::image type="content" source="../media/defender-for-identity-health-center-bar-aafec89c.png" alt-text="screenshot of the health center icon on the Defender for Identity portal showing a red dot in the heart icon":::
