Organizations use Microsoft Store for Business, not individual customers. In the Windows 10 operating system, Microsoft introduced Microsoft Store for Business, which is meant for organizations of all sizes. Organizations can sign up for Microsoft Store for Business for free; the only requirement is that the organization must have Azure AD. If an organization doesn’t yet have Azure AD, it can create an Azure AD tenant during the sign-up process. Then, the organization can purchase modern apps and make them available to company employees in a private store. Employees can access the private store by using the Microsoft Store app, which Windows 10 includes, and then install apps from the private store.

You can sign up and manage Microsoft Store for Business by using a web browser. However, before you can access it, you must authenticate with your Azure AD account. Microsoft Store for Business supports two types of licensing: online and offline. All apps support online licensing, while offline licensing is available only for apps for which the developer selected this option. Microsoft Store for Business includes basic deployment capabilities that enable you to assign apps to company employees. Employees will receive email notifications, and they can select the link in the email message to install the app.

#### Features and benefits of Microsoft Store for Business

Different vendors have different ways to distribute apps for their devices. Modern Windows apps are available through Microsoft Store, where anyone can purchase an app and install it on their Windows-based device. Microsoft Store for Business enables organizations to set up a private store and add modern Windows apps to that private store. An organization’s private store is available only to company employees. The private store can include publicly available, business-related apps that the organization purchased from Microsoft Store for Business. The private store can also include modern Windows apps that were developed for the organization and that must be available only to company employees.

> [!NOTE]
> Only free apps are available in the Microsoft Store for Business.

Microsoft Store for Business is a cloud service, which means that it’s scalable and available from anywhere, if you have internet connectivity. Company employees authenticate in Microsoft Store for Business with an Azure AD account, and you can delegate store permissions to any organizational user. You manage Microsoft Store for Business in a web browser, and employees can access it from the Microsoft Store app on Windows 10, or by using a web browser.

Microsoft Store for Business is available for free and provides organizations with the following benefits and features:

 -  **Scalable to fit any size organization**. For smaller organizations, you can quickly have an end-to-end process to acquire and distribute apps. Larger organizations can integrate Microsoft Store for Business with a management tool such as Microsoft Intune or Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager (Current Branch) for greater control over app deployments and updates.
 -  **Use of familiar infrastructure**. Because Microsoft Store for Business is a cloud service, it’s available around the world, and it has practically unlimited resources. It uses Azure AD for authentication, which means that organizations that are already using Azure AD authentication can easily implement it. If an organization doesn’t have Azure AD, it can create an Azure AD tenant automatically when it signs up for Microsoft Store for Business.
 -  **Private store**. Microsoft Store for Business includes a private store, which is available to all company employees after they authenticate with an Azure AD account. You can add purchased modern Windows 10 apps to a private store, and company employees can access them by using the Microsoft Store app from any Windows 10 device.
 -  **Bulk app acquisition**. Organizations can acquire and pay for apps in volume from Microsoft Store for Business.
 -  **Centralized management**. You can use Microsoft Store for Business as a central location for tracking available and installed apps, billing, and order history. You can also delegate permission for various aspects of Microsoft Store for Business management to company employees.
 -  **App license tracking and management**. In Microsoft Store for Business, you can view who installed apps and who has a license to run an app. You can also reclaim an app license from a user, which prevents them from using the app, and assign a license to another user. Online and offline licenses allow you to customize how you deploy apps.
 -  **Flexible distribution options**. Three options are available for distributing apps in Microsoft Store for Business. You can:
    
     -  Distribute apps through Microsoft Store for Business by assigning apps to company employees or by making apps available to all employees in the private store.
     -  Connect Microsoft Store for Business with Intune, Configuration Manager, or another management tool, and use the management tool’s advanced deployment options to deploy apps from Microsoft Store for Business.
     -  Use the offline-licensing model to distribute apps without connecting to Microsoft Store for Business.
 -  **Support for LOB apps**. An organization can submit and deploy LOB apps in Microsoft Store for Business. Developers can create LOB apps for an organization and make them available only to employees of that organization.
 -  **Up-to-date apps**. For apps with online licenses, Microsoft Store for Business can automatically update apps. Microsoft Store for Business apps also uninstall cleanly, without leaving behind extra files.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Microsoft announced that the Microsoft Store for Business will be retired in 2023. Microsoft Store for Business is not supported in Windows 11, however organizations can still use management solutions such as Endpoint Manager to deliver apps to Windows 11 devices, until the store is retired. Microsoft introduced a new tool called Windows Package Manager, which allows customers to install and manage private organization apps, as well as setup thier own private repository. Customers can also use Endpoint Manager to manage thier private catalogs. These funcationalities are either in Preview or not yet released, and therefore outside the scope of this course.
