Microsoft Store for Business is a cloud service. To access and administer Microsoft Store for Business, and for users to be able to browse and obtain apps from it, internet connectivity is necessary. Users who want to access Microsoft Store for Business must also have a suitable web browser and an Azure AD account—their identities exist in Azure AD. This is already the case if they have an Azure subscription or if they are using cloud services such as Microsoft 365 or Intune.

To use Microsoft Store for Business, you must meet the following prerequisites:

 -  **Internet connectivity**. The public cloud hosts Microsoft Store for Business. A device must have internet connectivity to browse Microsoft Store for Business and to administer it. If your company restricts access to the internet, you need to provide access to a set of URLs that must be accessible for devices to use Microsoft Store for Business.
 -  **Windows devices**. You can browse Microsoft Store for Business only from Windows 10 devices. Windows includes the Microsoft Store app, which you can use to access the public Microsoft Store and Microsoft Store for Business.
 -  **Windows Update service**. Microsoft Store requires the Windows Update service to be enabled on the device. The Windows Update service is for detecting, downloading, and installing updates for Windows operating systems and other apps, such as apps from Microsoft Store for Business. You can’t install apps from Microsoft Store for Business if the Windows Update service is disabled.
 -  **Supported web browser for administering Microsoft Store for Business**. Although Microsoft Store for Business users don’t need a web browser for browsing and installing apps, administrators need a web browser for managing Microsoft Store for Business. You can manage Microsoft Store for Business in Internet Explorer 11, Microsoft Edge, or current versions of Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox. In the web browser, you must enable JavaScript support.
 -  **Azure AD account**. If you want to manage or browse Microsoft Store for Business, you must first sign in to Microsoft Store for Business with an Azure AD account. If you use a management tool for deploying online-licensed apps, the users to whom you deploy apps must also have Azure AD accounts. If an app from Microsoft Store for Business supports offline licensing, an administrator can obtain and deploy it to users even if they don’t have an Azure AD account; however, the administrator must have an Azure AD account to obtain the app.

If all prerequisites are met, users can access, browse, and install the apps from Microsoft Store for Business. You can also assign them apps, in which case, users will receive notifications by email and will be able to install the apps. If your organization is using a management tool such as Intune or Configuration Manager to distribute and manage apps, you can integrate it with Microsoft Store for Business. Using a management tool provides additional control and reporting in app deployments.
