The Human Resources team at Contoso Electronics wanted to understand how they could create and use document understanding models in order to identify which documents in a SharePoint library are letters notifying Contoso Electronics employees of benefit changes. They also wanted to ensure these documents were labeled appropriately, so that they would be retained for a period of seven years and not more.

Setting up SharePoint Syntex document understanding models allowed us to clearly define which documents within this library fell into this category and could be clearly separated out. Using classifiers and extractors with the appropriate explanations allowed the document understanding models to easily identify what information should be pulled out of the documents and included in the designated SharePoint library.

Think about what this experience was like without SharePoint Syntex document understanding models. Megan and her team would have had to manually open each document in the library and comb through the information to determine if the documents were letters notifying Contoso Electronics employees of benefit changes and if they fit into the seven-year window. This manual process takes much more time and can only be done on an individual level, instead of being easily viewable and accessible by the entire Human Resources team.

SharePoint Syntex document understanding models eliminated the manual, time-consuming, and ineffective processes once faced. Spending a small amount of time configuring the model pales in comparison to the time that going into documents would take each individual team member. With the document understanding model applied, information is readily available in the applied SharePoint library and future documents can easily be assessed against this model.
