All security alerts could be sent to your Security Operations Center (SOC) team, however they could be overrun by alerts generated by normal users making simple mistakes rather than by genuine malicious attacks. By sending specific types of alerts to line managers for validation, the workload on the SOC team could be reduced.

For example, failed login attempts are often a symptom that someone is trying to maliciously access your system, however a typical user who has forgotten their password is also likely to have multiple failed login attempts. Rather than sending failed login attempts directly to your SOC team, they could first be sent to a manager for approval.

## Requesting manager validation for failed login attempts with Power Automate

To request manager validation for failed login attempts with Power Automate, perform the following steps:

1. Create a flow in Power Automate to handle the alert.

    :::image type="content" source="../media/4-power-automate.png" alt-text="Power Automate flow.":::

2. This alert should include several components:

    1. The flow is triggered when a Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps alert is generated.
    1. The flow gathers user information from their profile and Azure Active Directory.
    1. The flow requests manager input by email and has options for how the manager can respond to the alert.

        :::image type="content" source="../media/4-request-manager-input.png" alt-text="Request manager input.":::

    1. There is a switch, which takes the manager input and acts depending upon which action the manager chooses.
    1. The switch dismisses the Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps alert if the manager chooses **Ignore alert**.

        :::image type="content" source="../media/4-dismiss-alert.png" alt-text="Dismiss alert.":::

3. Create a policy in Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps, which has filters to only act only repeated activity with an **Activity type** equal to **Failed log on**.

    :::image type="content" source="../media/4-logon-policy.png" alt-text="Create filters for the policy.":::

4. In **Alerts**, select **Create an alert for each matching event with the policy's severity**, select **Send alerts to Power Automate**, and select the Power Automate flow that you created to handle these alerts.

    :::image type="content" source="../media/4-alerts.png" alt-text="Alerts.":::

The following video gives you an overview of requesting manager validation for Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps alerts:

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RWyOGb]
