Searching through documents housed in multiple repositories wastes time and can lead to duplicate versions of the same document when the original cannot be easily found. Using either a document understanding or form processing model, SharePoint Syntex gives administrators the power to automate document classification and extract meaningful information about the contents. The decision to add SharePoint Syntex to an organization's existing SharePoint library empowers users to extract data to enhance business processes.

You and your team at Contoso Electronics realized that the document libraries aren't as well organized as they could be. SharePoint Syntex was identified as the best option to bring much needed sense to your libraries. You worked out a proposal for applying SharePoint Syntex within the company. Armed with approval from key stakeholders and a project plan, you are now ready to get started with SharePoint Syntex. Before you can apply the power of AI to your libraries, however, you need to set up and configure SharePoint Syntex for your environment.  

In this module, you will learn how to adopt SharePoint Syntex; how to identify which prerequisites your organization meets, and which need to be met; how to identify proper licensing that corresponds to the size of the organization and the number and types of users; which steps to take to enable SharePoint Syntex; and how to configure SharePoint Syntex. Once completed with this module, you will be able to identify the libraries you want to organize and will be able to set up SharePoint Syntex.
