You can use the alert policy to monitor users' activities. Alerts are generated when users perform activities that match the conditions of an alert policy. For example, malware attacks, phishing campaigns, and unusual levels of file deletions and external sharing. You can create and review the alert dashboard from the Microsoft 365 compliance center.

Alert policies let you categorize the alerts that are triggered by a policy, apply the policy to all users in your organization, set a threshold level for when an alert is triggered, and decide whether to receive email notifications when alerts are triggered. 

:::image type="content" source="../media/alert-policy.png" alt-text="A screenshot of Alert policy" lightbox="../media/alert-policy.png":::

## How alert policies work

The following diagram shows the basic workflow of how alert policies work:

:::image type="content" source="../media/alert-policy-workflow.png" alt-text="Alert Policy Workflow":::

1. Administrators create new or modify existing policies in the Microsoft 365 compliance center that monitor unusual user or admin activity.  
2. A user or administrator performs actions, which match the conditions and triggers an alert policy, such as creating an eDiscovery case or possibly adding full access permissions to a mailbox.
3. An alert is generated, and the according alert action is triggered, such as sending an email to all global administrators. Additionally, an alert entry is created in the alert dashboard in the Microsoft 365 compliance center.  
4. Administrators review alerts in the alerts dashboard and decide to acknowledge or dismiss the alert.

## Alert policy settings

An alert policy consists of a set of rules and conditions that define the user or admin activity that generates an alert, a list of users who trigger the alert if they perform the activity, and a threshold that defines how many times the activity has to occur before an alert is triggered. You also categorize the policy and assign it a severity level. 

An alert policy consists of the following settings and conditions:

- **Activity the alert is tracking**. You create a policy to track an activity or in some cases a few related activities, such a sharing a file with a guest by sharing it, assigning access permissions, or creating an anonymous link. When a user performs the activity defined by the policy, an alert is triggered based on the alert threshold settings.

- **Activity conditions**. For most activities, you can define other conditions that must be met to trigger an alert.  

- **When the alert is triggered**. You can configure a setting that defines how often an activity can occur before an alert is triggered. 

    :::image type="content" source="../media/how-alerts-triggered.png" alt-text="Configure how alerts are triggered, based on when the activity occurs, a threshold, or unusual activity for your organization":::

- **Alert category**. To help with tracking and managing the alerts generated by a policy, you can assign one of the following categories to a policy:

  - Data loss prevention

  - Information governance

  - Mail flow

  - Permissions

  - Threat management

  - Others

  When an activity occurs that matches the conditions of the alert policy, the alert that's generated is tagged with the category defined in the setting. The tagging allows you to track and manage alerts that have the same category setting on the **Alerts** page in the compliance center because you can sort and filter alerts based on category.

- **Alert severity**. Similar to the alert category, you assign a severity attribute (**Low**, **Medium**, **High**, or **Informational**) to alert policies. Like the alert category, when an activity occurs that matches the conditions of the alert policy, the alert that's generated is tagged with the same severity level that's set for the alert policy. 

- **Email notifications**. You can set up the policy so that email notifications are sent (or not sent) to a list of users when an alert is triggered. 


## Create new alerts

To create a new alert policy in the Microsoft 365 compliance center and to check if audit logging is turned on, follow these steps:

1. Sign into **Microsoft 365 compliance center** and select **Policies** > **Alert policies**.
2. Select **+ New alert policy** from the top pane to create a new alert policy.
3. On the **Name your alert, categorize it, and choose a severity.** page, enter the following:

	- **Name** for identifying the use of this alert policy. 
	- **Description** for other administrators to understand the purpose of this alert policy.
	- **Severity** for a level of importance for events of these alerts.
	- **Category** to configure access for different roles in your organization.

4. Select **Next**.  
5. On the **Choose an activity, conditions and when to trigger the alert** page, select a desired activity and condition for the alert, then   
‎select **Next**.
6. On the **Decide if you want to notify people when this alert is triggered** page, you can specify the recipients of the notification and frequency of daily notification limit.   
‎Select **Next**.  ‎
7. On the **Review your settings** page, you can review the alert settings and decide to turn on the policy right away or later. Select **Finish** when everything is configured as desired.

    :::image type="content" source="../media/create-alert-policy.png" alt-text="A screenshot of creating Alert policy" lightbox="../media/create-alert-policy.png":::

## View alerts

The Role Based Access Control (RBAC) permissions assigned to users in your organization determine which alerts a user can see on the Alerts page. Here are some examples:

- Members of the Records Management role group can view only the alerts that are generated by alert policies that are assigned the **Information governance** category.

- Members of the Compliance Administrator  role group can't view alerts that are generated by alert policies that are assigned the **Threat management** category.

- Members of the eDiscovery Manager role group can't view any alerts because none of the assigned roles provide permission to view alerts from any alert category.


## Knowledge check

Choose the best response for the following question. Then select “Check your answers.”