When, where, and how we work is fundamentally transforming and organizations are moving towards digitization. Employees want more flexible work options while also still feeling connected to their team. Employees are expected to sync and work across multiple devices, including personal devices, making them difficult to manage and protect. Organizations seek to stay competitive in an ever-changing economic environment and to be prepared for economic uncertainties. They hope to unlock the full potential of their employees without causing burnout. Organizations want to drive process automation but their employees are working with too many apps leading to a fragmented experience. They aim to be protected from security threats but lack skilled personnel to keep up with the increased sophistication of attacks. Organizations strive for top-line growth, to cut costs and better serve their customers.

**Microsoft 365** can help solve today’s challenges to productivity and secure work from anywhere. You just need the right tools and technology in one cost-effective solution.

**Be more productive from anywhere with Microsoft 365.** Enable your team to do their best work with cloud technology to improve team collaboration, whether that’s at the office, out in the field, or at home. Microsoft Teams allows you to feel closer to colleagues through chat, voice and video. Create content with built-in Office apps and use the power of artificial intelligence (AI) to make all your work even better. Use integrated tools to simplify work and automate manual processes giving you time to focus on what matters. Foster a culture that empowers your employees to be their best from anywhere with Microsoft Viva. Easily transition from computer to mobile devices with innovative mobile apps enabling you to stay productive on the go.

**Secure your organization with technology you can trust through Microsoft 365.** Elevate and modernize your security, manage risk, and meet compliance standards on Microsoft's trusted cloud. Ensure only the right users have access with Azure Active Directory, multifactor authentication, and biometric access, like Windows Hello. Deploy a seamless, end-to-end management solution and gain visibility across all connected devices with Microsoft Endpoint Manager. Protect your organization against sophisticated cyberattacks through Microsoft 365 Defender. Get real-time analysis of your current security posture with Microsoft Secure Score.

**Get one cost-effective solution with Microsoft 365.** Consolidate to a single platform versus buying numerous platforms for multiple capabilities. Save on automation and process improvements through workflows, dashboards and AI. Reduce your total cost of risk by enhancing your security and compliance posture. Manage hardware and software more efficiently so IT can focus on strategy. Reduce hard costs, like real estate and travel, through flexible work from anywhere.

:::image type="content" source="../media/microsoft-module-cloud-unit-5eba710a.png" alt-text="microsoft-module-cloud-unit.png":::
