### The evolution of Office 365 to Microsoft 365

Over 10 years ago Microsoft introduced **Office 365,** the software-as-a-service you may be familiar with and have used. Evolving from Microsoft’s Business Productivity Online Suite (BPOS), Office 365 was designed to bring together its existing online products to an ever up-to-date cloud service. It combined the core productivity apps such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, Outlook, etc., and the collaboration and communication tools such as Exchange, SharePoint, and Skype for Business. Office 365 was a way to grow its Office-centric business and expand on communication and collaboration services. First aiming at corporate users, eventually updated versions of Office 365 subscriptions were released aiming at different size businesses, consumers, and students. These versions included new features such as OneDrive.

Over the last several years, Microsoft’s cloud productivity services have grown well beyond what people traditionally think of as ‘Office’, which has led to **Microsoft 365.** Renaming Office 365 to Microsoft 365 reflects the extension of features and benefits beyond the core Office 365 products and services. Microsoft 365 is a superset of Office 365 as it includes everything you know in Office 365 and more, such as Windows, Teams, and other cloud-based security and device management products and services.

Microsoft 365 is designed to help people and businesses achieve more with innovative apps, intelligent cloud services, and world-class security. Like Office 365, Microsoft 365 is a subscription service, making sure you always have the most up-to-date modern productivity and collaboration tools. You'll always have the latest features, fixes, and security updates along with tech support. There are Microsoft 365 subscription plans for personal use, small businesses, large enterprises, schools, and more. If you currently have an Office 365 subscription, it automatically becomes a Microsoft 365 subscription, and no action is needed from your end.

### Windows 365

You may be familiar with Windows operating system, the most current versions being Windows 10 and 11. **Windows 365** isn't exactly an operating system and isn't installed on your PC like Windows. Windows 365 is a subscription service for organizations that allows you to create and run PCs remotely. It’s called a cloud PC, meaning Windows 365 securely streams your personalized Windows desktop, apps, settings, and content from the cloud to any device. A cloud PC provides you with a virtualized computing experience where you can stream your Windows experience from the Microsoft cloud to any device. With a Cloud PC, Windows evolves from a device-based operating system (OS) to hybrid personalized computing.
