Managing and minimizing risk in an organization starts with understanding the types of risks found in the modern workplace. Some risks are driven by external events and factors and are outside direct control. Other risks are driven by internal events and employee activities that can be eliminated and avoided. Some examples are risks from illegal, inappropriate, unauthorized, or unethical behavior and actions by employees and managers.

This module explores different solutions in the Microsoft Compliance Center that can address specific compliance scenarios. You will learn how to configure insider risk management, and specifically, insider risk management policies.

This module then examines insider risk management alerts. These alerts are automatically generated by risk indicators defined in insider risk management policies. They give compliance analysts and investigators an all-up view of the current risk status and enable an organization to triage and take actions for discovered risks.

You'll then explore communication compliance in the Compliance Center. Communication compliance policies scan and capture messages across several communication channels to help organizations quickly review and remediate compliance issues. Communication compliance helps organizations address common pain points associated with following internal policies and regulatory compliance requirements.

The module concludes with a review of the toolset provided by Microsoft 365 to address data protection and compliance. You will be introduced to the Service Trust Portal, Compliance Manager, and other tools.

After completing this module, you'll be able to:

 -  Describe insider risk management functionality in Microsoft 365.
 -  Configure insider risk management policies.
 -  Explain insider risk management alerts.
 -  Explain the communication compliance capabilities in Microsoft 365.
 -  Describe the Microsoft 365 toolset that addresses data protection and compliance.
