Insider risk management alerts are automatically generated by risk indicators. Indicators are defined in insider risk management policies. These alerts give compliance analysts and investigators an all-up view of the current risk status. This design enables organization to triage and take actions for discovered risks.

### Alerts

The insider risk alert dashboard enables organizations to view and take action on alerts generated by insider risk policies. Each report tile displays information for the past 30 days.

Alert risk scores are automatically calculated from several risk activity attributes. These attributes include:

 -  the type of risk activity.
 -  the number and frequency of the activity occurrence.
 -  the history of user risk activity.
 -  the addition of activity risks that may boost the seriousness of the activity.

The alert risk score drives the programmatic assignment of a risk severity level for each alert. It can't be customized. If alerts remain untriaged and risk activities continue to accrue to the alert, the risk severity level will increase. Risk analysts and investigators use the alert risk severity to help triage alerts in accordance to an organization's risk policies and standards.

**Additional reading.** For more information on how to triage insider risk management alerts and create a case, see [Triage alerts](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/insider-risk-management-alertshttps://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/compliance-score-setuphttps://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/compliance-score-calculation?azure-portal=true).

### Cases

Cases are the heart of insider risk management. They enable organizations to deeply investigate and take action on issues generated by risk indicators defined in their policies. Cases are manually created from alerts when further action is needed to address an employee's compliance-related issue.

Each case is scoped to a single employee. Multiple alerts for the employee can be added to an existing case or to a new case. After investigating the details of a case, an organization can take action by completing any of the following actions:

 -  sending the employee a notice.
 -  resolving the case as benign.
 -  escalating to a data or employee investigation.

Deeper investigation into insider risk management alerts is critical to taking proper corrective actions. Insider risk management cases are the central management tool for investigating employee risk activity history and alert details. It's also used to explore the content and messages exposed to risks. Risk analysts and investigators also use cases to centralize review feedback and notes and to process case resolution.

**Additional reading.** For more information on investigating insider risk cases, see [Investigate a case](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/insider-risk-management-caseshttps://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/compliance-score-setuphttps://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/compliance-score-calculation?azure-portal=true).
