Managing and minimizing risk in an organization starts with understanding the types of risks found in the modern workplace. Some risks are driven by external events and factors and are outside direct control. Other risks are driven by internal events and employee activities that can be eliminated and avoided. Some examples are risks from illegal, inappropriate, unauthorized, or unethical behavior and actions by employees and managers.

This module begins by exploring the insider risk management solution in the Microsoft Purview compliance portal. Microsoft Purview Insider Risk Management is a compliance solution that helps organizations minimize internal risks by enabling them to detect, investigate, and act on malicious and inadvertent activities. You'll learn how the insider risk management workflow helps organizations identify, investigate, and take action to address internal risks. With focused policy templates, comprehensive activity signaling across the Microsoft 365 service, and alert and case management tools, organizations can use actionable insights to quickly identify and act on risky behavior.

Once you have a better understanding of the insider risk management components, you'll then examine how organizations should plan to implement this solution by:

 -  Working with stakeholders in your organization.
 -  Determining regional compliance requirements.
 -  Planning for review and investigation workflow.
 -  Understanding requirements and dependencies.
 -  Testing with a small group of users in a production environment.

The module then examines how to configure insider risk management. It targets three key areas: insider risk management policies, alerts, and cases.

You'll learn how policies determine the users that are in scope and the types of risk indicators that are configured for alerts. You'll then be introduced to the key policy templates provided in Microsoft Purview Insider Risk Management. For each policy template, you'll learn about the triggering events for policies created from each template and the prerequisites for using each template. You'll then learn how to create a policy.

The module then examines insider risk management alerts. These alerts are automatically generated by risk indicators defined in insider risk management policies. They give risk analysts and investigators an all-up view of the current risk status and enable an organization to triage and take actions for discovered risks.

Finally, you'll examine insider risk management cases. They enable organizations to deeply investigate and act on issues generated by risk indicators defined in their policies. Cases are manually created from alerts in situations where further action is needed to address a compliance-related issue for a user.

After completing this module, you'll be able to:

 -  Describe insider risk management functionality in Microsoft 365.
 -  Develop a plan to implement the Microsoft Purview Insider Risk Management solution.
 -  Create insider risk management policies.
 -  Manage insider risk management alerts and cases.
