As the Microsoft Teams administrator for your organization, you want to ensure meetings and calls are inclusive of users with disabilities so everyone can participate and contribute.

You can take advantage of several features, including captions and transcription, to support accessibility in your Teams environment.

Here, you will learn how to enable features like captions and transcripts to help make meetings and calls more inclusive of people with disabilities.

## Why captions and transcripts are important

Captions and transcripts are text versions of the words someone is speaking. Captions and transcripts provide people who are hard of hearing, people with learning disabilities like dyslexia, and many others the option to see text in addition to, or instead of, only audio. Captions also may benefit people who are deaf by providing additional information on top of what those users receive from the sign language interpreter they may work with.

*Captions* appear for users in sync with real-time audio without obstructing other visual aids, like shared screens or media, as shown in the image below.

:::image type="content" source="../media/teams-captions.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Teams showing captions during a conversation.":::

*Transcripts* play for users in sync with audio for recorded meetings. Users can access transcripts separately from videos so they can digest the content in a manner they prefer:

:::image type="content" source="../media/teams-transcripts.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing a transcript.":::

## Enable live captions for meetings

Live captions are managed through policies. You can configure live caption policies by using either the Microsoft Teams admin center.

To enable live captions for all users using the Microsoft Teams admin center:

1. Select **Meeting policies**.
1. Select the **Global (Org-wide default) policy**.
1. Then set **Enable live captions** to **Disabled, but the user can override** in your policy, as indicated in the image.

   :::image type="content" source="../media/microsoft-teams-admin-center-meeting-policies.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Microsoft teams admin center, meeting policies.":::

Users can then turn on live captions during meetings:

:::image type="content" source="../media/teams-turn-on-live-captions.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Teams message menu with the turn on live captions highlighted.":::

> [!NOTE]
>
> Live captions are currently available for meetings held in Commercial, and Government Community Cloud (GCC) tenants.

### Data handling

To provide live captions for meetings, Microsoft Teams leverages details like the meeting subject, attachments, invitation, and recent emails of participants. Data handling adheres to the terms of your master service agreement with Microsoft. Microsoft Teams protects data associated with live captions by taking several measures:

- Data is only processed in the geographical region where your organization is based.
- Data is processed automatically through Microsoft Automatic Speech Recognition service, which means no one has access to the meeting audio or any other data associated with the meeting.
- All caption data generated is permanently deleted after a meeting ends.
- The user can easily disable and re-enable live captions when necessary.

> [!NOTE]
>
> As previously stated, data handling adheres to the terms of your master service agreement with Microsoft. If you have a question about privacy, please contact us by using our web form linked in the learn more section.

## View transcripts through recorded meetings

With Microsoft Teams, you can enable your users to record meetings, which allows autogenerated transcriptions of the meeting's conversation.  All recordings are stored in Microsoft Stream.

### Record meetings

To enable recording for meetings, you can use the Microsoft Teams admin center.
In the Microsoft Teams admin center:

1. Select the **Meeting policies** pane.
1. Select **Global (Org-wide default)** and set **Allow cloud recording** to **On**, as shown in the image below.

   :::image type="content" source="../media/microsoft-teams-admin-center-meeting-policies-allow-cloud-meeting.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the meeting policies in Teams Admin Center to allow for cloud recording.":::

Users can then record any meetings by selecting **Start recording** during meetings:

:::image type="content" source="../media/teams-start-recording.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Microsoft Teams meeting menu with start recording highlighted.":::

When the meeting has finished, the recording will be available on Microsoft Stream. All attendees will receive an email with the link to the video once it has finished processing.

### View transcripts

With cloud recording and transcription enabled, your users can generate automatic transcripts from recorded meetings in Microsoft Stream dashboard using the following steps:

1. Find recorded meetings under **My content** - > **Meetings**:

   :::image type="content" source="../media/transcripts-meetings-01.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Meetings button selected in the 'My Content' menu tab.":::

1. Select the video to enable captions and transcripts by selecting **Update video details** on the video in the list:

   :::image type="content" source="../media/transcripts-meetings-02.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to update the video details.":::

1. In the details section, select one of the supported languages to use for captioning and transcription:

   :::image type="content" source="../media/transcripts-meetings-03.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the details for supported video language.":::

1. In the options section, select **Autogenerate a caption file**:

   :::image type="content" source="../media/transcripts-meetings-04.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to autogenerate a caption file.":::

1. Finally, select **Apply** at the top dashboard.

1. Live captioning will then be available for the video. Users can enable it by selecting **CC** on the bottom right of the video when watching a video. A searchable transcript is also available on the right of the video:

   :::image type="content" source="../media/transcripts-meetings-05.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the transcript of a video.":::

1. Users can use the transcript to find keywords or phrases spoken during the video and jump to that specific point in the video by typing into the search field at the top of the transcript and selecting the result:

   :::image type="content" source="../media/transcripts-meetings-06.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to search a transcript for keywords.":::

1. Alternatively, if users want to search for a word or phrase across all videos made available to them, they can search for it by using the search field at the top of Microsoft Stream:

   :::image type="content" source="../media/transcripts-meetings-07.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to search for words and phrases in the Microsoft Stream.":::

1. And then select any result in the list to take you to a specific matched point in each video:

   :::image type="content" source="../media/transcripts-meetings-08.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the transcript search results.":::

## Learn more

- [Add subtitles or captions to your Microsoft Stream video](/stream/portal-add-subtitles-captions)
- [Accessibility support for enterprise](https://support.microsoft.com/accessibility/enterprise-answer-desk)
- [Ask a question about privacy at Microsoft](https://privacy.microsoft.com/privacy-questions)
