If your organization is using OneDrive or are adding OneDrive in as part of this deployment, there is new option available for migration. Using the cloud to synchronize user files, OneDrive “Known Folder Move” feature provides a level of flexibility not possible with local network-based file migration options. If enabled prior to migration, it provides secure access on new or refreshed PCs and, it eliminates the need to create temporary migration stores on your own servers. It is also has the potential to be completely transparent to the user.

Within OneDrive users can select the folders and locations they would like to sync from OneDrive or SharePoint to their device, but that effectively puts the burden on the end user to set it up. With Known Folder Move, IT admins can target the Documents, Desktop and Pictures folders within a user profile and protect it all on OneDrive. A user can do this themselves or, importantly for this scenario, an IT admin can enforce this using Group Policy settings.

With Known Folder Move, users don’t change their workflow – everything looks the same before, during and after synchronization with OneDrive is complete. Through Group Policy you can even choose whether or not to notify users that their documents, pictures, and desktop are protected in OneDrive. The users will only be aware when they take delivery of a new PC or their PC is refreshed, everything else happens in the background. As soon as a user signs in to their OneDrive account, these files will be available again, and will be restored to their new PC. Using OneDrive also means they will also their files securely at any time from their phones and other devices.

Authentication for OneDrive is powered by Azure Active Directory, so for extra security, you can easily enable multi-factor authentication and set policies to control the upload and download bandwidth OneDrive uses to limit network activity. Since some organizations may have large scale migrations, you don’t have to migrate every use at the same time - you may want phase the roll-out of the Group Policy settings or limit file sync to domain-joined PCs.
