Organizations and home users use different methods to process updates. Within an organization, downloading updates and applying them to each individual computer within an organization is repetitive and inefficient. Consequently, Microsoft provides a number of ways for organizations to make the update process more manageable. One of these is the Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) role.

:::image type="content" source="../media/use-windows-server-update-services-deploy-updates-270d7476.jpg" alt-text="Diagram showing the WSUS process.":::


The WSUS role provides a central management point for updates to your computers running the Windows operating system. By using WSUS, you can create a more efficient update environment in your organization, and stay better informed about the overall update status of the computers on your network. WSUS is a server role included in the Windows Server operating system that downloads and distributes updates to Windows clients and servers. WSUS can obtain updates that are applicable to the Windows operating system and common Microsoft programs, such as the Microsoft Office suite and Microsoft SQL Server.

In the simplest configuration, a small organization can have a single WSUS server that downloads updates from the Microsoft Update website. The WSUS server then distributes the updates to computers that you have configured to obtain automatic updates from the WSUS server. You must approve the updates before clients can download them. Larger organizations can create a hierarchy of WSUS servers. In this scenario, a single-centralized WSUS server obtains updates from Microsoft Update, and other WSUS servers obtain updates from the centralized WSUS server.

You can organize computers into groups to simplify the approval of updates. For example, you can configure a pilot group to be the first set of computers that you use for testing updates.

WSUS can generate reports to help monitor update installation. These reports can identify which computers have not applied recently approved updates. Based on these reports, you can investigate why this is happening.

### The WSUS update management process

The update management process allows you to manage and maintain WSUS and the updates that it retrieves. This process is a continuous cycle during which you can reassess and adjust the WSUS deployment to meet changing needs. The four phases in the update management process are:

1.  **Assess**. The goal of the assess phase is to set up a production environment that supports update management for routine and emergency scenarios. The assess phase is an ongoing process that you use to determine the most efficient topology for scaling the WSUS components. As your organization changes, you might identify a need to add more WSUS servers in different locations.
2.  **Identify**. During the identify phase, you identify new updates that are available, and determine whether they are relevant to your organization. You have the option to configure WSUS to retrieve all updates automatically, or to retrieve only specific types of updates. WSUS also identifies which updates are relevant to registered computers.
3.  **Evaluate and plan**. After you identify the relevant updates, you need to evaluate whether they work properly in your environment. There is always the possibility that the specific combination of software in your environment might have problems with an update. To evaluate updates, you should have a test environment in which you can apply updates to verify proper functionality. During this time, you might identify dependencies that an update requires to function properly, and you can plan any changes that you need to make. You can achieve this if you use one or more computer groups for testing purposes. For example, you may have a computer group with client computers that run all of the operating systems and applications that are updated by using WSUS. You can use another computer group for servers that run the different applications and operating systems that are updated by WSUS. Before you deploy updates to the entire organization, you can push updates to these computer groups, and then test them. Only after making sure they work as expected should you move on to the deploy phase.
4.  **Deploy**. After you have thoroughly tested an update and determined any dependencies, you can approve it for deployment in the production network. Ideally, you should approve the update for a pilot group of computers before approving the update for the entire organization. You also can configure WSUS to use automatic updates.
