Until recently, managing an organization's technological infrastructure and PCs required IT professionals to do lots of hands-on, manual, and time-consuming tasks. New kinds of device form factors, new approaches in Windows client management, advancements in cloud technology, and bring your own device (BYOD) trends have made the move toward modern management more compelling for many organizations - not only for mobile devices, but also PCs.

Modern management is a novel approach to managing Windows, similar to how mobile devices are managed by Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM) solutions. This approach allows you to simplify deployment and management, improve security, provide better end-user experiences, and lower costs for your Windows devices. With modern management, you can now manage devices of all kinds, from desktop PCs to HoloLens and Surface Hubs, company-owned or employee-owned, as well as mobile devices running iOS or Android, using one management platform. Let's examine why you should consider implementing a modern management approach for Windows devices in your organization.

#### The pillars of modern management

 -  **Easy to deploy and manage.** Traditional operating system deployment (OSD) while powerful is typically complex and time-consuming. There is now a simpler way to provision new Windows devices. Windows Autopilot, which is deeply integrated with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) and Intune, simplifies and personalizes out-of-the-box (OOBE) experience for users, joins the device to Azure AD, and enrolls it in Intune. Users’ email, apps, files, preferences as well organization’s security settings are also automatically applied by Intune without needing to create custom OS images.
 -  **Always up to date.** Keeping up with emerging security threats and increasing user productivity requires a shift in how often Windows and Microsoft 365 Apps need to be updated. With aligned updates, powerful insights driven by cloud intelligence, and a modern management approach with EMS, there is now a better way to keep devices up to date without the complexity of maintaining an on-premises infrastructure.
 -  **Intelligent security, built-in.** Attackers are becoming more sophisticated, and Microsoft 365 was designed with security in mind. There are many new and evolving security features built directly in the Microsoft 365 platform, including Windows Hello, Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (ATP), Windows Information Protection, Azure AD Identity Protection, Conditional Access, and more. These security features are powered by Microsoft Intelligent Security Graph which uses billions of signals and constantly improving machine-learning algorithms. Intelligent Security Graph provides human expertise to help you protect your company data and respond to sophisticated attacks.
 -  **Proactive insights.** With rich telemetry and cloud intelligence, you can now proactively discover device and app issues before they affect end users. You can be more confident when applying OS updates, discover security issues, and more. The fusion of machine intelligence with human expertise can create a unique and powerful partnership.
