You need to regularly replace desktop computers to keep up with software and hardware developments. However, from their initial deployment until their retirement, desktop computers, like any other system, need support.

The standard desktop-computer replacement cycle is typically every three to four years. The release of a new Windows operating system version has often driven this schedule in the past, and three-year warranty and maintenance contracts are common in many enterprises. Economic factors cause many organizations to postpone replacements because they try to curtail nonessential spending. Sustained operation and support are vitally important in these circumstances.

The following factors are essential to continue life-cycle support in the operation phase:

 -  **Facilities**. These include factors such as ensuring that the environment has continuous, regulated electricity, that air conditioning and heating temperatures and humidity are within manufacturer’s guidelines, and that the environment is clean, with dust and foreign objects kept away from the server systems and storage. A building’s overall structural soundness is also a factor. The facility should meet local codes, provide for safe, secure workspaces, and provide protection from outside elements such as rain and humidity. Facilities also should meet basic office workspace ergonomics standards, some of which are designed to keep desktops safe by mitigating potential accidents, such as users tripping over cables, kicking cases, and knocking over monitors.
 -  **Computer security**. This issue requires constant vigilance. Not only do computers require protection from malware and external attacks, but they are also valuable corporate resources that must be protected from theft, misuse, and misappropriation. Important computer-security responsibilities include deploying antimalware software, performing software, application, and operating system updates, and monitoring the status and inventory of systems.
 -  **Software updates**. This is another constant component of computer support. You must keep computers that are running Windows operating systems stable and secure by regularly updating them with the latest security updates and fixes. Windows Update enables you to download and install important and recommended updates automatically. You can update most Microsoft applications by using the Windows Update functionality. While many software vendors also provide regular updates, they may require user interaction. Driver updates for various hardware component manufacturers also are available through Windows Update. You can apply Windows Update to quickly fix most security issues that manufacturers discover during a software product’s lifespan. Because updates can sometimes cause functionality problems with other software, or in rare cases, even system failure, testing updates are a necessary part of life cycle support. Many organizations require that administrators use a formal process to test and deploy updates.
 -  **Data protection**. This involves backing up user and configuration data, providing for disaster recoverability, and providing stable, secure information repositories. Data protection is typically implemented by system administrators on the various servers that host data, although repositories are usually provided for users to move their data. To protect user data, systems administrators often provide scripts or some other functionality that moves the data automatically. Note that laptop and tablet users typically do not receive this level of support, in which case they will be required to back up their devices themselves. You should consider planning to protect mobile data in addition to traditional onsite data. Cloud and datacenter solutions are available to perform both functions.
 -  **IT administration**. IT administration is the day-to-day resource that users rely on to help keep their computers safe, to answer questions, and resolve computing-related issues. IT administration provides solutions to problems that users cannot fix, which can include physically going to a user's computer to configure it or providing for a remote system that can do the same. Beyond helping users, IT administration performs desktop-related functions, such as auditing and asset management. Together, these activities form the core of IT administration.

The support phase of the life cycle includes providing training, IT support, and hardware servicing. Consider the following factors when providing these activities:

 -  **Training**. This is potentially the most costly and time-consuming component of the support phase. This activity includes both training the IT staff and providing the IT labor required to develop and deliver end-user training. It also includes LOB apps and training for the software and hardware on a typical computer. The cost of training for unfamiliar LOB apps can be substantial. A successful Windows deployment requires additional training, even for users who are familiar with Windows computing, so that they can learn the new interface and gain the efficiencies that Windows can provide. Not all workers have the same experience dealing with devices such as smartphones and tablets; therefore, you should customize the training accordingly. Many enterprises overlook the training component of an enterprise desktop life cycle, and often do not provide adequate time or resources for training. Generally, organizations find that investing in training can greatly enhance workers' efficiency.
 -  **IT support**. This support is integrated throughout the enterprise desktop life cycle. Most of the steps described throughout this topic are part of IT support. This component includes help-desk and onsite support. Most enterprises recognize that computer maintenance, including tasks such as disk defragmentation, are end-user functions, but IT personnel can still monitor maintenance. Managing reporting systems, including the ability to track issues and manage remedies, is another IT support function. As workers join or leave an organization, supplying workers with new systems and reusing older systems also are required.
 -  **Servicing hardware**. This involves fixing desktop computers, replacing failed or faulty components, and managing warranty issues. It also involves keeping and restocking adequate components and replacement systems, and shipping and receiving warrantied items back and forth from vendors.
