Being able to resolve desktop app deployment issues depends on your understanding of why the deployment failed. Once you understand why a desktop app isn't deploying properly, you then can determine the correct methods to resolve the issue. The following list describes methods used for resolving desktop app deployment issues:

 -  **Run as administrator**. For desktop app installations that don't properly elevate permissions to perform installation, you can manually elevate permissions by right-clicking the installation file, and then selecting **Run as Administrator**.
 -  **Install the necessary dependencies**. If you can't install a desktop app because of missing dependencies, then you must install the necessary dependencies. If the missing dependency affects multiple computers, you need to determine the best way to deploy the missing dependency to all computers. You might need to update the base image, which you then can deploy with the dependency.
 -  **Application Compatibility Toolkit (ACT)**. ACT is a suite of tools that you use to simplify the installation and execution of earlier applications on newer versions of Windows operating systems. One of the tools in ACT is Application Compatibility Manager. This tool is used to generate an inventory of installed applications, and then evaluate whether those applications experience issues when running on Windows. You typically would use ACT during migration to a new operating system. You install ACT as a part of the Windows Assessment and Deployment Kit.
 -  **Correct AppLocker configuration**. If AppLocker blocks legitimate desktop apps from installing, then you must adjust the configuration of AppLocker rules.

In the case of automated deployment, the application may install and perform correctly when manually installed but fail when using an automated deployment method. While the application itself shouldn't be ruled out, when a manual installation succeeds and the automated installation doesn't, it's often a lack of permissions that is preventing the installation. Verify whatever deployment tool you're using has the correct permissions required to install the application.
