Your success in resolving an issue with a desktop app operation depends on your accuracy in defining the issue. Some ways to resolve issues with desktop app operations include the following methods:

 -  **Install a requested feature**. If an application feature that a user requires is missing, then you can install it. Ultimately, you must determine if other users require that feature as well, and if so, determine the best way to accommodate them. You might need to update the application’s installation process or update an operating system image that contains the application.
 -  **Reconfigure the application**. If you configure a desktop app incorrectly, you can reconfigure it so that it meets the defined specifications. If multiple users require the reconfiguration, you need to determine the best way to update multiple computers. You might decide to update Group Policy, update the application deployment process, or update an operating system image that contains the application.
 -  **Repair or reinstall the application**. If a desktop app is experiencing errors or is unable to start, repairing the application might resolve the issue. Repairing an application updates the application files to the correct version, and rewrites the required computer-specific registry entries. It does not affect user-specific registry entries. If an application repair does not resolve the problem, try reinstalling the application.
 -  **Apply application updates**. Application updates resolve desktop app operation issues that the application’s vendor identifies. Installing application updates in a timely manner might prevent some issues with desktop app operations from occurring in your environment, and might resolve any performance issues.
 -  **Upgrade the application to a newer version**. Some issues with application operations require you to upgrade to a newer version of the application. For example, to increase performance and access more memory, you might need to upgrade an app to a 64-bit version. New features might also be available in newer versions.
 -  **Identify performance issues and bottlenecks**. Performance issues that users report typically are vague. You need to define the source of the issue by using tools such as Performance Monitor or Resource Monitor. Improving performance might be dependent on hardware upgrades, or users might need to run fewer applications simultaneously on the computer. You also might need to adjust users’ performance expectations.
 -  **Reconfigure AppLocker rules**. If AppLocker rules are preventing a legitimate desktop app from running, you must reconfigure those rules to enable the desktop app to run, by using the application path, the publisher, or the hash value.
