Microsoft 365 apps have become easier to install and use. However, you and your users might still run into issues. You might experience some of the following issues with Microsoft 365 apps:

 -  **Installation**. Verify that the installed Office product is in fact Microsoft 365 as opposed to a non-subscription version of Office. To do this, open one of the Office applications, select File, and then select Account. Under Product Information, you should see the text Subscription Product. If the text is something else, such as Microsoft Office Professional 2013, then you should uninstall the current version of Office and install Microsoft 365 using the Microsoft 365 installation procedure.
 -  **Licensing**. If a user receives an activation or subscription error in Microsoft 365, you must verify that the user has an active user account and license for Microsoft 365. In Microsoft 365, you assign software licenses to user accounts so they can install the product on several devices. Check if the user has both an active Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) user account and a Microsoft 365 license.
 -  **Activation**. Activation of Microsoft 365 usually occurs during installation. To remain activated, Microsoft 365 connects to the Internet at least once every 30 days. Office goes into reduced functionality mode when there's an activation issue. In this mode, most commands are unavailable and users see “product deactivated” messages when they try to use Microsoft 365 applications. The user should try to reactivate Microsoft 365 from one of the Office applications or access the Microsoft 365 portal to manage Microsoft 365 installations. Microsoft 365 also contains a script named ospp.vbs that can display license information.
 -  **Connectivity**. Microsoft 365 connects to the Internet at least once every 30 days to verify the license status. A successful connection to the website at: https://aka.ms/Mdfgn8 means that you have a connection to Microsoft 365. If a webpage does not display, check for configurations that might be preventing the computer from connecting to the Internet, including firewall or proxy server settings. In addition, you should verify that no firewalls are blocking ports 80 and 443. If you use a proxy server to obtain Internet access, you can use the bitsadmin tool to verify connectivity.
 -  **Updates**. Microsoft 365 usually downloads and installs updates automatically. You should verify that Microsoft 365 is set to receive the updates automatically. You can open a Microsoft 365 application, such as Word, select File, and then select Account. Under Office Updates, you should see the text Updates are automatically downloaded and installed.
