## What’s changed?
If you haven’t shifted your desktop environment in a while you’re likely using Windows 7 and Office 2010 or Office 2013. The good news is much about the deployment process has improved with new tooling and insights making challenges of the past such as application compatibility less of an issue today. You’ll notice a few things have evolved since your last major upgrade, here are some of the core changes:

**Identity and access management** - With connectivity to cloud productivity, security, and management services, Windows 10 and Office 365 ProPlus has a new Identity and Access Management service at its core: Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). This enables single sign-on and secure connectivity across your cloud services, meaning that you are going to need Azure AD in place to take advantage of Microsoft 365 services such as Office 365, Intune, or Windows Autopilot.

**Secure pre-boot environment** - 64-bit UEFI firmware replaces BIOS in Windows 10 which not only speeds up boot times, but is required to enable many of the modern security capabilities in Windows 10. While Windows 10 will run on BIOS, UEFI is strongly recommended and there are tools to help you make this switch either during or after a Windows 10 upgrade.

**Cloud-based device management** - Services like Microsoft Intune help you manage your Windows 10 devices as you do other mobile devices, all from one place. What makes Microsoft Intune unique is the ability to co-manage your Windows 10 devices with System Center Configuration Manager. You can use System Center Configuration Manager to help you in your shift to Windows 10, and then add Microsoft Intune. Working together, System Center Configuration Manager becomes the intelligent edge within your organization, connected to the Microsoft intelligent cloud, allowing you to manage your users’ devices securely wherever they are, whether connected on your organization’s infrastructure or in the public cloud. 

**Cloud-based deployment service** - As you acquire new PCs we’ve introduced a new cloud service to help you deploy Microsoft 365 devices called the Windows Autopilot deployment service. Autopilot is integrated with your hardware providers and new PCs are automatically registered in Autopilot enabling the new PC to be shipped directly to the end-user. When the PC is powered on the first time it is quickly configured to your organizations desired configuration and customized for the specific needs of the user.

**Click-to-run deployments** - When provisioning Office desktop apps, Office 365 ProPlus is the preferred option giving you access to the newest innovations in Office as they are developed. Office 365 ProPlus uses a new installation called Click-to-Run which is quite different from the MSI-based packages of the past. Click-to-Run is faster, lighter, and supports updates in the background to keep your users to be up and running. It is still a local copy of Office and you can continue to use your existing deployment tools, like System Center Configuration Manager, to provision and configure the apps.

**Semi-annual updates** - Once you have moved to Windows 10 and Office 365 ProPlus, updates are delivered semi-annually with new features. With Microsoft able to deliver insights from the cloud to help, you can quickly and confidently roll out these updates to hundreds or thousands of devices meeting your organization’s update compliance timelines.
