## Windows 10 Compatibility Scan
Before deploying Windows 10 Microsoft strongly recommends checking the readiness of your existing devices running Windows 7 or 8/8.1. Windows 10 installation media supports a command line switch **ScanOnly** for the setup.exe to run the upgrade but only check for compatibility, not actually perform the upgrade. ScanOnly can be run as a scripted batch file or integrated into a System Center Configuration Manager task sequence, including the ability to run the ScanOnly directly from the network so the Windows 10 installation media isn’t streamed down to the local device. When ScanOnly completes the results are returned via return codes in log files generated by Setup.EXE.

A sample ScanOnly command line that completes the compatibility scan silently would look like:

```
Setup.EXE /Auto Upgrade /Quiet /NoReboot /Compat ScanOnly
```

## Windows Analytics Upgrade Readiness
Windows Analytics Upgrade Readiness offers many advantages over traditional desktop management systems and is our recommended tool to assess your organization’s readiness. It is agentless and guides you through what needs to be done making use of application and driver compatibility information gathered through the upgrade of hundreds of millions of consumer PCs. This information gives you a detailed assessment, identifying compatibility issues that might block your upgrade, supported with links to suggested fixes known to Microsoft.

To set up Window Analytics Upgrade Readiness you’ll first need to set up an Azure subscription and include an Azure Log Analytics workspace to that. Once Windows Analytics Upgrade Readiness is running, you can then enroll any Internet-connected Windows 7 SP1 or newer device via Group Policy settings to start collecting diagnostic data. There are no agents to deploy, and Windows Analytics Upgrade Readiness’s visual workflow guides you from pilot to production deployment. If you wish, you can export data from Windows Analytics Upgrade Readiness to software deployment tools such as System Center Configuration Manager, to target PCs directly and build collections as they become ready for deployment.

## Readiness Toolkit for Office
The Readiness Toolkit for Office add-ins and VBA can help you identify compatibility issues with your Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macros and add-ins that you use with Office. The Readiness Toolkit includes the Readiness Report Creator, which creates an Excel report with VBA macro compatibility and add-in readiness information to help your organization assess its readiness to move to Office 365 ProPlus. The Readiness Report Creator can scan for VBA macros in Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Access, Project, Visio, and Publisher files, for Office versions as far back as Office 2003. It can also scan for certain types of add-ins used with Office, however it doesn't include web add-ins. 

The Readiness Toolkit for Office is free from the Microsoft Download Center and checks if you're using the most current version when you run a report. If a newer version exists it will prompt you to download the most current version, you don't have to uninstall the older version. The download is an MSI file that after installed allows you to run the Readiness Report Creator on a device completing the UI wizard steps to create a readiness report. For organizational usage there is also a standalone executable that can be run from the command line or used with scripts. This is useful to collect readiness information from users throughout your organization in a more wide-scale and automated manner.
