Always On VPN is a technology introduced in Windows 10 that allows users to stay connected to their internal network even when they're outside of company premises, or in general, whenever they're connected to the internet. Unlike traditional VPN connection, that requires a user to manually initiate when he or she wants to connect to a company's network, Always On VPN does this automatically, even before the user signs in, if it is configured that way. Also, in cases when internet links fail, it reconnects automatically when the internet connection is restored without user action. With this technology, users don't need to concern themselves with whether they need to initiate a VPN connection to access a resource. When Always On VPN infrastructure is set up, users have seamless access to both external and internal resources despite their physical location.

Always On VPN is a direct successor of Direct Access technology, introduced in an earlier Windows Server version. While it provides almost the same user experience as Direct Access, it also brings simpler deployment and more flexibility for clients. You can initiate Always On VPN connection even from devices running Windows Home edition. Always On VPN has mitigated most of the limitations of earlier VPN solutions and expanded the VPN functionality beyond the capabilities of DirectAccess or traditional VPN.

Always On VPN can work on both domain and non-domain joined devices. It supports both user and device authentication, and it uses traditional remote access VPN protocols such as IKEv2, SSTP, and L2TP/IPsec, as well as both IPv4 and IPv6. As both managed and un-managed devices are supported to initiate Always On VPN connections, in order to maintain acceptable level of security, you can use conditional access and device compliance policies with Always On VPN. You can also use new methods of authentication, such as Windows Hello for Business and multi-factor authentication. If you don't want to enable access to the entire internal network, you can implement traffic filters and allow external access only to selected resources in the internal network.

Always On VPN is exclusively a Windows 10 or later feature – devices using other platforms would need to use traditional client VPN solutions. Also, you can't use AD DS or Group Policy to deploy and manage this feature. You need to use Configuration Manager, Microsoft Intune or PowerShell. Windows Server 2016 and later, with the Routing and Remote Access role installed supports Always On VPN technology. However, other network devices (from vendors such as Cisco, Juniper, Palo Alto and others) that can terminate VPN connections are also supported.

Enabling clients for Always On VPN connections requires deploying an XML VPN profile. This can be manually created or use a configured client to generate a template. The XML file can then be deployed to clients using Intune, Configuration Manager or Powershell.

The process for creating VPN profiles is beyond the scope of this course, and typically the MDA will work with the Network Manager when configuring Always On VPNs.
