Deploying a new version of Windows requires proper planning for organizations. The existing environment, including the types of devices, the hardware specifications, the applications in use, and the user's expectations all play a factor in determining the best method for installing Windows. It is common for organizations to implement more than one method, depending on the scenario.

Historically, an organization would wipe the device and reimage it with the preferred Windows edition and configuration defined by IT. This would be the process, regardless if the device was new or being upgraded. This process was typically done because, despite the overhead involved in managing this process, it was a repeatable process that ensured the device has the correct OS configuration.

Using a traditional wipe and load process requires creating a custom Windows image for the organization, identifying and obtaining all the needed drivers and apps for reinstallation, and significant engineering effort to implement the process. These processes have existed for quite some time, and Windows 10 and later continue to support these process.

Windows 10 introduced new alternatives to help simplify this process, allowing Administrators to apply configurations to the existing installation instead of wiping the entire OS. If an existing device has Windows 10 or later installed, the installation itself is likely fine. Instead of replacing the entire OS just to attain a specific configuration, the existing OS is reconfigured to the organization's desired specifications, including the correct Windows edition. The result is virtually the same as wipe and reload, but is accomplished without the additional time and network overhead of reimaging the entire devices. This concept is valid for both existing devices, as well as new devices, as most new devices are sold with Windows already installed.
