You can use different strategies to deploy an operating system on a new computer. The strategy that best fits your needs, depends on different factors, such as the number of devices to which you must deploy the operating system, deployment scenarios, user needs, and deployment tools that are available in your organization.

You can follow the guidelines below to identify the best strategy for your needs, including that you should:

 -  **Identify the deployment scenario or scenarios**. The scenario that you face determines the need for restoring user state data. Most organizations face two basic deployment scenarios:
    
     -  **New device**. You need to install an operating system on a new device that your organization has not used. In this scenario, if you deploy a device for a new user, there might be no user state data to migrate. This also can include existing devices that you treat as new, where you do not need to retain any of the device’s data.
     -  **Replacement device**. You use a new device as a replacement for an existing device. Therefore, you have to transfer the existing device’s user state data to the new device.
 -  **Identify the method or tools for deploying the OS and applications**. When an organization is managing more than 25 devices, centralized management should be considered. While this might seem like a low threshold, keep in mind that deployment isn't just about the delivery of an operating system and apps, but also continuous management. Specifically, ensuring that the device configuration does not drift to a state that becomes a security risk. Organizations should consider a management solution such as Microsoft Intune, whether they choose to manage devices themselves or contract with an IT management company.
 -  **Identify the necessary device drivers**. Different hardware requires different drivers. Make sure that you identify and secure the necessary drivers for each hardware device that you use from a particular manufacturer. Do this for all applicable manufacturers.
 -  **Identify storage and network resources that you can use during deployment**. You must store images, installation files, device drivers, and user state data, and then copy this data to the device that is undergoing deployment. Ensure that you identify available file servers, and estimate the amount of space that you need for each item that you must store and copy.
 -  **Identify operating system features and settings that each deployment requires**. You can automate most settings to apply during deployment. Most organizations enable BitLocker Drive Encryption on their Windows-based mobile devices. You can customize your deployment process to enable BitLocker after deployment.
 -  **Identify how you will handle licensing and activation**. Smaller organizations usually have an individual product key per user, while larger organizations might use Active Directory activation, Key Management Service (KMS), or multiple activation keys (MAKs).
 -  **Identify critical apps that you must maintain post-deployment**. You need to ensure that apps are compatible with new operating systems or that you can mitigate any incompatibilities. You will learn how to handle application compatibility issues in a later module.
 -  **Document your environment.** Collect all the relative information, which is used to help choose the appropriate strategy based on the company's requirements.
