Both Windows 10 and Office 365 ProPlus introduce new servicing options, support models, and update timelines. These changes simplify the process for staying current on the latest features. Along with these updates are new configuration options to enable servicing plans that meet your needs. In the units following we’ll cover the update model changes and Microsoft recommendations in managing both Windows and Office servicing.

## Update types
Updates fall into two main categories: feature updates and then quality and security updates which contain cumulative security, reliability, and bug fixes. In terms of cadence, both Windows and Office deliver a semi-annual channel which delivers new features twice per year around March and September while quality and security updates occur monthly. Additionally, unique to Office 365 applications, Microsoft offers a fully-supported Monthly Channel option where updates contain both new features and quality updates.

## Feature update benefits
Microsoft has moved away from the model of the past that would introduce huge waves of change around every three years to now incremental smaller changes with feature updates twice per year. With technology trends moving so fast, in addition to rapidly evolving security threats, this keeps experiences and protections current. For example, some of the security related updates can’t just be delivered by monthly security updates or antivirus signature files; they may be low-level changes platform, like virtualization-based security.

## Cumulative update model benefits
Delivering quality and security updates as a cumulative update package corrects many of the issues of the past. It used to be that IT admins might pick and choose sometimes from a dozen updates or more each month for both Windows and Office. This created a nearly impossible set of test matrices for support while also requiring some devices to take hours or days to apply all updates delivered since that version was released.
With the cumulative model, PCs are always one update away from being current and in doing so the number of monthly updates that you need to deploy is reduced. Each update builds upon updates from previous months and contains all of the fixes that you need to get current. Cumulative updates are especially helpful when PCs has been turned off for several months because they are in storage waiting to be reassigned to a different user.

## Expanded Validation of Updates
Another advantage is that before updates are rolled out for broad deployment, builds are first released via the Insider programs for Office and Windows. This allows Microsoft to gather diagnostic data and feedback ahead of releasing updates broadly. The Insider programs are open to everyone so that you can get ahead of understanding the updates. By the time updates are released, Microsoft will have received diagnostic data from millions of configurations, so when update are rolled out quality is now inherently more predictable

Lastly, because Office 365 ProPlus Insider builds reflect monthly channel updates, organizations using semi-annual channel for Office to deliver feature updates twice per year aligned to Windows can validate those builds early as well using the semi-annual channel (targeted) releases.
