To align with the new method of delivering feature updates and quality updates in Windows 10, Microsoft introduced the concept of servicing channels to allow customers to designate how frequently their individual devices are updated. For example, an organization may have test devices that the IT department can update with new features as soon as possible, and then specialized devices that require a longer feature update cycle to ensure continuity. 

## Windows 10 Servicing Channels
Windows 10 offers 3 servicing channels:

- **Windows Insider Program** is available for organizations to test and provide feedback on features shipped in the next feature update. For many IT pros, gaining visibility into feature updates early can be valuable for future end user communications, as well as provide the means to test for any issues on the next Semi-Annual Channel release. With Windows 10, feature flighting enables Windows Insiders to consume and deploy preproduction code to their test machines, gaining early visibility into the next build. Testing the early builds of Windows 10 helps organizations have the opportunity to discover possible issues before the update is broadly distributed.
- **Semi-Annual Channel** provides new functionality with Feature Update releases twice per year. Semi-Annual Channel releases are made available to any PC not configured to defer feature updates so that those devices can immediately install it. Organizations using Windows Server Update Services (WSUS), System Center Configuration Manager, or Windows Update for Business can defer Feature Updates to selective devices or collection. 
- **Long Term Servicing Channel (LTSC)** provides feature updates every 2–3 years and is designed only for specialized devices or systems needing a longer servicing option. LTSC is available only in the Windows 10 Enterprise LTSB edition and does not include a number of applications which are not supported on Windows 10 Enterprise LTSB edition, including Office 365 ProPlus.

## Office 365 ProPlus Servicing Channels
Office 365 offers four servicing channels:

- **Office Insider Program** for organizations to test and provide feedback on the newest Office features and functionalities still in development
- **Monthly Channel** provides users with the newest Office features as soon as they’re available with an expected release each month. The release might also contain non-security updates, such as updates that provide stability or performance improvements for Office. Monthly Channel releases are cumulative containing all of the features, security updates, and non-security updates from the previous Monthly Channel releases and is supported only until the next Monthly Channel release. Although no set schedule for when a feature release occurs, security updates are usually released on the second Tuesday of the month. If there is a critical non-security issue that needs to be fixed Microsoft provides a separate Monthly Channel release that fixes the issue. 
- **Semi-Annual Channel** is the default channel for Office 365 ProPlus and provides new functionality with new features only twice per year in January and July and commonly leveraged by organizations who don’t want to deploy the latest features right away or have a significant number of line-of-business applications, add-ins, or macros to test with Office. Features included have already been released in the Monthly Channel and releases additional security updates, if needed, that can also be added which usually occurs on the second Tuesday of the month. If there is a critical non-security issue that needs to be fixed in Semi-Annual Channel, that non-security update will also be included in a Semi-Annual Channel release, usually on the second Tuesday of the month.
- **Semi-Annual Channel (Targeted)** is a fully supported build of Office that enables pilot users and application compatibility testers to test and validate the next Semi-Annual Channel. Semi-Annual Channel (Targeted) releases provide the same features and functionality that will be in the next release of Semi-Annual Channel and is expected to be released twice a year in March and September, new features aren’t released at any other time. Features included have already been released previously in Monthly Channel and releases additional security updates, if needed, can also be added which usually occurs on the second Tuesday of the month. Even though this update channel is primarily designed for testing, it's a fully supported version of Office 365 ProPlus.

