Creating a SharePoint hybrid environment is about using both SharePoint Server on-premises and Microsoft 365 SharePoint Online to achieve your business goals. To create a hybrid SharePoint environment, there are many planning guidelines that must be considered when choosing the best solution for your company. Key planning options include:

 -  Taxonomy
 -  OneDrive For Business
 -  Search
 -  Profiles
 -  App Launcher
 -  Sites
 -  Server to Server Authentication

Most of these functions can be addressed by using the SharePoint Online Hybrid Picker, which can be downloaded from the SharePoint Online Admin Center. The Enterprise Administrator can use the Hybrid Picker wizard to redirect OneDrive for Business to SharePoint Online, apply hybrid site features or the app launcher, and add some extra integration between on-premises SharePoint Server and an extra-net site that was created in Microsoft 365. The Hybrid Picker also creates a Server-to-Server (S2S)/OAuth connection for your SharePoint Hybrid features.

> [!NOTE]
> Before using the Hybrid Picker tool, [.NET Framework 4.6.2](https://support.microsoft.com/topic/the-net-framework-4-6-2-web-installer-for-windows-6ec55fa1-50e9-0395-2a37-ff612779027c?azure-portal=true) must be installed.

For the enterprise administrator, you must satisfy several account requirements before you can run the Hybrid Picker tool. These requirements include being:

 -  a member of the Farm Administrators group.
 -  a service application administrator (Full Control) for the User Profile Service.
 -  a Microsoft 365 Global Administrator.
 -  logged into Microsoft 365 and SharePoint Server from a server in your SharePoint Server farm.
 -  able to launch the Hybrid Picker as a Farm Administrator with elevated permissions.

Companies don't need to set up a hybrid environment to get the most out of SharePoint Online. Plenty of functionality already exists within SharePoint Online that allows organizations to maximize their collaboration efforts without needing to configure a hybrid state. However, a hybrid environment does provide the following extra features, all of which can be set up with the help of the Hybrid Picker tool:

 -  [Hybrid OneDrive](/sharepoint/hybrid/plan-hybrid-onedrive-for-business). Storing business files in OneDrive for Business makes it easy for users to share and collaborate on documents. With Microsoft 365, you can also reduce your on-premises storage costs by moving your users' files to the cloud. Choosing this option redirects on-premises My Sites/OneDrive for Business sites to SharePoint Online OneDrive for Business in Microsoft 365. Once the wizard finishes, selecting any of the on-premises OneDrive links redirects to OneDrive for Business in the cloud. This step completes your redirection, and users can begin to migrate any files to their online OneDrive. This option also sets up hybrid user profiles. When users select the option to view a profile, they're redirected to the profile in Microsoft 365. Using online services lets you focus on your business, without worrying about managing server infrastructure or how employees will access the information they need.
 -  [Hybrid Sites Features](/sharepoint/hybrid/sharepoint-hybrid-sites-and-search). Choosing this option sets up hybrid sites features, a suite of site integration features, and OneDrive for Business redirection. Clicking this option configures hybrid OneDrive for Business and hybrid user profiles, hybrid site following, and the hybrid app launcher.
 -  [Hybrid App Launcher](/sharepoint/hybrid/the-extensible-hybrid-app-launcher). With App Launcher, administrators can create a modern productivity experience for their users. The Extensible Hybrid App Launcher helps users to have a more seamless experience when navigating between your on-premises SharePoint Server and Microsoft 365. This hybrid feature further integrates Microsoft 365 with your on-premises SharePoint server farm by placing tiles like Office 365 Delve and Video (and custom Microsoft 365 tiles you may have) on the on-premises SharePoint Server App Launcher. This option also sets up hybrid OneDrive for Business with user profile redirection, and sites features.
 -  [Business-to-business (B2B) extranet sites](https://support.office.com/article/7b087413-165a-4e94-8871-4393e0b9c037?azure-portal=true). An extranet is a site that organizations create to let external users have access to relevant content and to collaborate with them. Using Microsoft 365, you can create partner facing extranet sites that let partners securely do business with your organization. With SharePoint Hybrid extranet, partners connect directly to a members-only site in Microsoft 365, without having access to the corporate on-premises environment or any other Microsoft 365 site. Choosing this option installs extra features you can later integrate with any extranet site you create in Microsoft 365. It also sets up OneDrive for Business and user profile redirection, sites features, and the hybrid app launcher.
 -  [Hybrid auditing](https://support.office.com/article/3a379540-f72b-406f-866a-d6121715ec8c?azure-portal=true). This feature, which is only in SharePoint Server 216, lets on-premises SharePoint Server 2016 administrators upload on-premises user activity logs to the Microsoft 365 Compliance Center. Hybrid auditing gives SharePoint administrators visibility to users' file access activities in their SharePoint 2016 on-premises farms and in their SharePoint Online sites. Administrators can view user activities through Audit Log search from the Microsoft 365 Compliance Center. No other hybrid features are set up with this option.
 -  [Hybrid Taxonomy and Content Types](/sharepoint/hybrid/plan-hybrid-sharepoint-taxonomy-and-hybrid-content-types). SharePoint hybrid taxonomy allows SharePoint administrators to create shared taxonomies (managed metadata) between their on-premises SharePoint Server and SharePoint Online. This feature allows a centralized taxonomy that's readable and writable in the Microsoft 365 cloud, to be used as a read-only copy on-premises. With SharePoint hybrid taxonomy, changes and updates to your SharePoint Online taxonomy are replicated in your SharePoint Online sites and your SharePoint Server 2016 sites. This feature includes Hybrid Content type (June 2017 PU required) which replicates the published content types in Microsoft 365 to on-premises. With hybrid content types, you can have a set of content types that are shared between SharePoint Server and SharePoint Online, and are mastered in SharePoint Online. Choosing this option sets up OneDrive for Business and user profile redirection, sites features, and hybrid app launcher.
 -  [Hybrid Search](/sharepoint/hybrid/hybrid-search-in-sharepoint). With Hybrid Search, you can search for files and documents across SharePoint Server and SharePoint Online, giving you easy access to the files that you need. Implementing a SharePoint hybrid infrastructure lets users search from both systems and access content from each. You can also make working with both environments more seamless by using hybrid profiles, and the extensible hybrid app launcher. Choosing this option creates a cloud Search service application in SharePoint Server and connects the cloud Search service application to your Microsoft 365 tenant. Selecting this option is just one of the steps needed to set up cloud hybrid search; you must complete the rest of the steps yourself (see the [Configure cloud hybrid search - roadmap](/sharepoint/hybrid/configure-cloud-hybrid-searchroadmap)). This option doesn't include setup of other hybrid features.
