Insider risk management is a solution in Microsoft 365 that helps minimize internal risks by enabling you to detect, investigate, and take action on risky activities in your organization.

Managing and minimizing risk in your organization starts with understanding the types of risks found in the modern workplace. Some risk is driven by external events and factors and are outside direct control. Other risks are driven by internal events and employee activities that can be eliminated and avoided. Some examples are risks from illegal, inappropriate, unauthorized, or unethical behavior and actions by employees and managers. These behaviors include a broad range of internal risks from employees:

- Leaks of sensitive data and data spillage
- Confidentiality violations
- Intellectual property (IP) theft
- Fraud
- Insider trading
- Regulatory compliance violations

Employees in the modern workplace can create, manage, and share data across a broad spectrum of platforms and services. In most cases, organizations have limited resources and tools to identify and mitigate organization-wide risks while also meeting employee privacy standards.

## Insider risk management workflow

Insider risk management helps you identify, investigate, and address internal risks in your organization. With focused policy templates, comprehensive activity signaling across the Microsoft 365 service, and flexible workflow, you can use actionable insights to identify and resolve risky behavior quickly.

Identifying and resolving internal risk activities and compliance issues with insider risk management in Microsoft 365 uses the following workflow:

:::image type="content" source="../media/2-diagram-insider-risk-management.png" alt-text="Diagram showing the risk management workflow":::

- Policies - Insider risk management policies are created using pre-defined templates and policy conditions that define what risk indicators are examined in Microsoft 365 feature areas. These conditions include how indicators are used for alerts, what users are included in the policy, which services are prioritized, and the monitoring time period. For more information, see [Insider risk management policies](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/insider-risk-management-policies?view=o365-worldwide).
- Alerts - Alerts are automatically generated by risk indicators that match policy conditions and are displayed in the **Alerts dashboard**. This dashboard enables a quick view of all alerts needing review, open alerts over time, and alert statistics for your organization. For more information, see [Insider risk management alerts](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/insider-risk-management-alerts?view=o365-worldwide).
- Triage - New activities that need investigation automatically generate alerts that are assigned a *Needs review* status. Reviewers can quickly identify these alerts and scroll through each to evaluate and triage. Alerts are resolved by opening a new case, assigning the alert to an existing case, or dismissing the alert. As part of the triage process, reviewers can view alert details for the policy match, view user activity associated with the match, see the severity of the alert, and review user profile information.
- Investigate - Cases are created for alerts that require deeper review and investigation of the details and circumstances around the policy match. The **Case dashboard** provides an all-up view of all active cases, open cases over time, and case statistics for your organization. Selecting a case on the case dashboard opens the case for investigation and review. For more information, see [Insider risk management cases](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/insider-risk-management-cases?view=o365-worldwide).
- Action - After cases are investigated, reviewers can quickly take action to resolve the case or collaborate with other risk stakeholders in your organization.
  - Actions can be as simple as sending a notification when employees accidentally or inadvertently violate policy conditions. For more information, see [Insider risk management notice templates](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/insider-risk-management-notices?view=o365-worldwide).
  - In more serious cases you may need to share the insider risk management case information with other reviewers in your organization. Escalating a case for investigation allows you to transfer data and management of the case to Advanced eDiscovery in Microsoft 365. To learn more about Advanced eDiscovery cases, see [Overview of Advanced eDiscovery in Microsoft 365](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/overview-ediscovery-20?view=o365-worldwide).

### Scenarios

Listed below are some example scenarios of how insider risk management can help enterprises manage  internal risks in their organization:

- Data theft by employees - When employees leave an organization, either voluntarily or as the result of termination, there is often legitimate concerns that company, customer, and employee data are at risk. Insider risk management policies that use the [Departing employee data theft](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/insider-risk-management-policies?view=o365-worldwide#policy-templates) policy template automatically detect activities typically associated with this type of theft.
- Intentional or unintentional leak of sensitive or confidential information - In most cases, employees try their best to properly handle sensitive or confidential information. Sometimes employees may intentionally leak or share sensitive and confidential information with malicious intent and for potential personal gain. Insider risk management policies created using the [Data leaks](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/insider-risk-management-policies?view=o365-worldwide#policy-templates) policy template automatically detect activities typically associated with sharing sensitive or confidential information.
- Actions and behaviors that violate corporate policies- employee-to-employee communications are often a source of inadvertent or malicious violations of corporate policies. These violations can include offensive language, threats, and cyber-bullying between employees. This type of activity contributes to a hostile work environment and can result in legal actions against both employees and the larger organization. Insider risk management uses new built-in Microsoft 365 classifiers and the [Offensive language in email](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/insider-risk-management-policies?view=o365-worldwide#policy-templates) policy template.

Information for all of the policy templates referenced can be found at [Insider risk management policies](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/insider-risk-management-policies?view=o365-worldwide).
