The Advanced eDiscovery solution in Microsoft provides an end-to-end workflow to preserve, collect, review, analyze, and export content that's responsive to your organization's internal and external investigations. It also lets legal teams manage the entire legal hold notification workflow to communicate with custodians involved in a case.

The built-in workflow of Advanced eDiscovery aligns with the eDiscovery process outlined by the Electronic Discovery Reference Model (EDRM) which provides practical global resources to improve e-discovery, privacy, security, and information governance.

At a high level, here's how Advanced eDiscovery supports the EDRM workflow:

- **Identification**. After you identify potential persons of interest in an investigation, you can add them as custodians (also called *data custodians*, because they may possess information that's relevant to the investigation) to an Advanced eDiscovery case. After users are added as custodians, it's easy to preserve, collect, and review custodian documents.
- **Preservation**. To preserve and protect data that's relevant to an investigation, Advanced eDiscovery lets you place a legal hold on the data sources associated with the custodians in a case. You can also place non-custodial data on hold. Advanced eDiscovery also has a built-in communications workflow so you can send legal hold notifications to custodians and track their acknowledgments.
- **Collection**. After you identified (and preserved) the data sources relevant to the investigation, you can use the built-in search tool in Advanced eDiscovery search for and collect live data from the custodial data sources (and non-custodial data sources, if applicable) that may be relevant to the case.
- **Processing**. After you've collected all data relevant to the case, the next step is process it for further review and analysis. In Advanced eDiscovery, the in-place data that you identified in the collection phase is copied to an Azure Storage location (called a *review set*), which provides you with a static view of the case data.
- **Review**. After data has been added to a review set, you can view specific documents and run another queries to reduce the data to what is most relevant to the case. Also, can annotate and tag specific documents.
- **Analysis**. Advanced eDiscovery provides integrated analytics tool that helps you further cull data from the review set that you determine isn't relevant to the investigation. In addition to reducing the volume of relevant data, Advance eDiscovery also helps you save legal review costs by letting you organize content to make the review process easier and more efficient.
- **Production** and **Presentation**. When you're ready, you can export documents from a review set for legal review. You can export documents in their native format or in an EDRM-specified format so they can be imported into third-party review applications.
