At Microsoft, we recognize unexpected events can and do occur, from routine hardware failures to major outages. Our customers depend on our services to conduct their own business, and as such, we are an integral part of our customers' business continuity planning. A primary goal of the Microsoft cloud is ensuring our services are available when customers need them. To meet our availability Service Level Agreements (SLAs), we design resilient online services and maintain a comprehensive, up-to-date business continuity program that is tested regularly against industry standards and best practices. Our business continuity planning ensures that when incidents do occur, we are prepared to respond swiftly and at a global scale.

As part of our commitment to providing our customers with the peace of mind that customer applications and data are safe and available in Microsoft 365, Microsoft Office 365    holds ISO 22301 certification. ISO 22301 certification is the premium standard for business continuity and demonstrates conformance to rigorous practices to prevent, mitigate, respond to, and recover from disruptive incidents. Achieving the ISO 22301 certification demonstrates the seriousness of our commitment to providing customers with the highest quality of service. You can see the latest certifications in the [Service Trust Portal](https://servicetrust.microsoft.com/?azure-portal=true) (after you sign into the portal).

In this module, we will explore how Microsoft 365 designs and builds resilient services to prevent routine faults from impacting service availability. In addition, we will detail how Microsoft 365 meets the requirements of Microsoft's Enterprise Business Continuity Management (EBCM) Program to ensure our services are prepared to recover quickly from incidents that impact service availability. Finally, we will explore how Microsoft 365 uses availability monitoring and capacity planning to provide optimal service delivery to our customers.
