Once a build has passed all required testing and review, it is ready to be introduced for production use. New builds are gradually released to the service through a "safe deployment process" (SDP), which is a gradual, staged roll out to increasingly large percentages of the service. Each stage is called a "ring," beginning with "Ring 0" and expanding outwards. Builds run in each ring to ensure stability before proceeding to the next ring. The exact definition, size, and composition of the rings varies by service and the requirements of each service. For Microsoft 365, the rings are defined as follows:

1. Ring 0 is comprised of the development team responsible for that service. This ring exposes the build to Microsoft employees most responsible for the affected service. Builds stay in this ring for an appropriate number of days containing high load periods, such as workdays.

1. Ring 1 is comprised of all Microsoft employees. This ring exposes the build to significantly more users for thorough testing prior to customer release. Builds stay in this ring for an appropriate number of days containing high load periods.

1. Ring 2 is the first exposure of the build to users outside Microsoft. This ring is often called a SIP, or "Slice In Production." A SIP is typically a unit of capacity about an order of magnitude larger than Ring 1. Builds stay in this ring for an appropriate number of days containing high load periods.

1. Ring 3-N, where N represents the final deployment ring, exposes the build to progressively larger percentages of the total service until the entire service has been updated. Because the build has already been exercised at scale in prior rings, the build progresses through these rings more quickly, waiting long enough to ensure stability before deploying the next unit of capacity.
