You can resolve most errors that pertain to sign in issues quickly once you identify the issue. You can use the following methods and tools to help troubleshoot sign-in issues:

 -  **On-screen errors**. Most user sign-in errors provide an accurate description on the screen. However, many users might not interpret these messages correctly. Often, viewing the error yourself is more accurate than relying on a user’s description of it.
 -  **Active Directory Users and Computers**. You can use this tool to verify the user’s sign-in name and whether the account is disabled. You also can use this tool to unlock the account and reset the password, if necessary.
 -  **Windows PowerShell**. You can use Windows PowerShell to query a user’s account status and reset a user’s account properties. For example, use the **Get-ADUser** cmdlet to retrieve user account properties, the **Unlock-ADAccount** cmdlet to unlock a user account, and the **Set-ADUser –enabled $true** cmdlet to enable a user account. If you wish to use these cmdlets on a Windows client computer, install Remote Server Administration Tools (RSAT) on that computer to install the necessary Windows PowerShell cmdlets.
 -  **Event logs**. You can use Event Viewer to view event logs that might give some indication of why a sign-in error occurs. The Security logs on a computer or domain controller indicate if authentication errors occur. The computer’s System log indicates if the computer account isn't authenticating correctly.

If a user is able to sign in, but can't access network resources, the sign-in process might be using the user’s cached credentials. If this happens, you should verify that the computer has network connectivity and that the computer account is authenticating properly.

If your organization doesn't restrict user sign-in to specific computers, the user can attempt to sign in to a second computer, which identifies whether the authentication issue pertains to a specific computer. You can use the results of this test to limit your troubleshooting scope. For example, if the issue isn't computer-specific, then it isn't a local computer-configuration issue.
