In today’s workplace, IT departments support different devices configured in different ways. Your organization might have Android and iOS mobile phones, Windows 10 and macOS PCs, and custom devices your users bring to work.

Microsoft provides the tools and services to enable you to simplify the management of all these devices. Microsoft Endpoint Manager (MEM) helps you solve the challenge of device management in today’s mobile and remote work environment. MEM is a secure and intelligent management solution that improves productivity and collaboration with the familiar experiences users expect and gives IT the flexibility to support diverse scenarios for both bring your own device (BYOD) and corporate-owned devices.

Endpoint Manager combines services you may know and already be using, including Microsoft Intune, Configuration Manager, Desktop Analytics, co-management, Microsoft Defender, and Windows Autopilot. These services are part of the Microsoft 365 stack to help secure access, protect data, and respond and manage risk.

Endpoint Manager includes the following services:

 -  **Microsoft Intune**: Intune is a 100% cloud-based mobile device management (MDM) and mobile application management (MAM) provider for your apps and devices. It lets you control features and settings on Android, Android Enterprise, iOS/iPadOS, macOS, and Windows 10 devices. Configuration Manager: Configuration Manager is an on-premises management solution to manage desktops, servers, and laptops that are on your network or internet-based. You can cloud-enable it to integrate with Intune, Azure Active Directory (AD), Microsoft Defender ATP, and other cloud services. Configuration Manager has a rich set of capabilities that allow you to customize the following areas:
    
     -  Application management
     -  OS deployment
     -  Software update management
     -  Device compliance
 -  **Co-management**: Co-management combines your existing on-premises Configuration Manager investment with the cloud using Intune and other Microsoft 365 cloud services. You choose whether Configuration Manager or Intune is the management authority for the seven different workload groups. As part of Endpoint Manager, co-management uses cloud features, including conditional access.
 -  **Desktop Analytics**: Desktop Analytics is a cloud-based service that integrates with Configuration Manager. It provides insight and intelligence for you to make more informed decisions about the update readiness of your Windows clients. The service combines data from your organization with data aggregated from millions of devices connected to the Microsoft cloud.
 -  **Windows Autopilot**: Windows Autopilot sets up and pre-configures new devices, getting them ready for use. It's designed to simplify the lifecycle of Windows devices, for both IT and end-users, from initial deployment through end of life. You can use Autopilot to preconfigure devices, and automatically enroll devices in Intune. You can also integrate Autopilot with Configuration Manager and co-management for more complex device configurations (in preview).
 -  **Azure Active Directory (AD)**: Azure AD is used by Endpoint Manager for identity of devices, users, groups, and multi-factor authentication (MFA). Azure AD Premium, which may be an additional cost, has other features to help protect devices, apps, and data, including dynamic groups, auto-enrollment, and conditional access.
 -  **Endpoint Manager admin center**: The [admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431) is a one-stop web site to create policies and manage your devices. It plugs-in other key device management services, including groups, security, conditional access, and reporting. This admin center also shows devices managed by Configuration Manager and Intune (in preview).
