Workplace Analytics quantifies Microsoft 365 collaboration to give business decision-makers a powerful tool for evidence-based cultural transformation. Dashboards highlight potential problem areas through guided exploration, while custom queries offer flexible data access to create analysis tailored to one's own needs.

By augmenting Microsoft 365 data with business outcome data, practitioners can identify best practices, develop predictive models, and establish organizational benchmarks. With add-on consulting services, Workplace Analytics solutions experts can help organizations use this data to identify business opportunities, implement change, and measure success.

Workplace Analytics uses data from everyday work in Microsoft 365 to help organizations:

 -  connect collaboration patterns to business outcomes, which can provide intelligent new insights to improve productivity and engagement across their business.
 -  tap into data from everyday collaboration in Microsoft 365 without disrupting the way people work.
 -  visualize insights and track change over time by using intelligent metrics and built-in dashboards.
 -  map behaviors to business outcome data to see how collaboration impacts results.
 -  use flexible queries and Power BI integration to create custom reports and dashboards for faster decision-making.
 -  control data usage and access with flexible privacy controls.

Microsoft has enabled Workplace Analytics with built-in privacy and compliance capabilities. Customers own their Microsoft 365 data and decide how to apply insights generated by Workplace Analytics to solve tough business challenges. Workplace Analytics only uses metadata that's aggregated and de-identified. That being said, Workplace Analytics isn't designed or intended to enable employee evaluation, tracking, automated decision-making, profiling, or monitoring. Nor is Workplace Analytics intended to give employees access to new personal information on other coworkers.

> [!NOTE]
> Workplace Analytics processes and stores customer data and personal data following the [Microsoft Online Services Terms](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/product-licensing/products?azure-portal=true) and Microsoft's obligations as a [data processor](/workplace-analytics/privacy/data-protection-considerations#microsofts-role-data-processor?azure-portal=true).

### Using Workplace Analytics

Here’s a few ways in which organizations can use Workplace Analytics:

 -  **Sales productivity.** Workplace Analytics was designed with the flexibility to address a broad range of strategic and organizational culture-based initiatives. For example, a sales organization can use Workplace Analytics to identify the collaborative patterns of top performers and then scale those behaviors to the broader sales organization—resulting in a significant increase in sales. Some of these patterns may include the amount of time spent with customers and the size of the person’s internal network. These patterns can be an indicator of a salesperson’s ability to get answers and solve customer questions.‎
 -  **Manager effectiveness.** Organizations can also use Workplace Analytics to drive a cultural change with its managers. For example, by looking at how time-usage metrics are related to engagement and retention, they can see how the behaviors of managers are pivotal in determining employee engagement and retention. Behaviors, such as 1:1 manager time, level of leadership exposure given to employees, and the degree to which work can be distributed evenly across an organization, are all measurable through Workplace Analytics.
 -  **Space planning.** The collaboration insights from Workplace Analytics can be used by organizations to do space planning. They can analyze the metadata attached to employee calendar items to calculate the travel time associated with meetings. For example, one organization found that, because of the relocation, each employee reduced their travel time to meetings by 46 percent—resulting in a combined total of 100 hours saved per week across all 1,200 employees involved in the move.

:::image type="content" source="../media/workplace-analytics-report-screenshot-c0ce6760.jpg" alt-text="screenshot of a Workplace Analytics report of weekly collaboration at a company":::


## Knowledge check

Choose the best response for the following question. Then select “Check your answers.”