With SharePoint Syntex, it is not only possible to organize your less-structured documents within your document libraries, you can also extract information from and classify form documents, such as invoices and applications – any document that has a defined structure and uniform set up across all the document types.

Previously, you have seen how to create and apply document understanding models to document libraries. Now, the accounting department at Contoso Electronics is eager to bring the power of SharePoint Syntex to the forms in their content libraries. They have recognized that manually processing copious amounts of purchase orders has taken up a considerable amount of time for members of the accounting department. This manual form processing has also resulted in errors when processing the forms which ultimately trickles down to other parts of the business, such as the operations team that needs purchase orders addressed properly. To achieve a more automated and accurate process for reviewing and organizing these essential business documents, you will need to train the accounting department how to build form processing models.

When you created a document understanding model, you used machine learning techniques to classify and extract data. Form processing works differently because forms can be more predictable – more structured. Unlike document understanding models that originate in the Content Center, form processing models are created in PowerApps AI Builder.  AI Builder is used to extract information, reference that model with a Power Automate flow and run it on files uploaded to a specific library whenever a file is uploaded to it.

By the end of this module, you will know how to create a form processing model and how to apply it to a SharePoint library. You will understand how the model will assign content types and how training improves model fitness.
