Microsoft 365 uses BitLocker to encrypt the disk drives containing customer data at the volume level, ensuring all data-at-rest is encrypted. BitLocker encryption is a data protection feature built into Windows that integrates with the operating system and mitigates the threat of data theft or exposure from lost, stolen, or inappropriately decommissioned computers. BitLocker is one of the technologies Microsoft 365 uses to safeguard data if lapses in other processes or controls (e.g., access control or recycling of hardware) were to lead to unauthorized physical access to disks containing sensitive data.

BitLocker is deployed with Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) 256-bit encryption on disks containing customer data. Disk sectors are encrypted with a Full Volume Encryption Key (FVEK), which is itself encrypted with the Volume Master Key (VMK), which in turn is bound to the Trusted Platform Module (TPM) in the server. Because the VMK directly protects the FVEK, protecting the VMK using the TPM is critical for preventing unauthorized access to the FVEK. BitLocker uses FIPS-compatible algorithms to ensure that encryption keys are not stored or sent over the wire in the clear. The Microsoft 365 implementation of customer data-at-rest-protection does not deviate from the default BitLocker implementation.

:::image type="content" source="../media/encryption-flow-bitlocker.png" alt-text="A flow diagram depicting the chain of trust for BitLocker encryption. Cleartext data is encrypted by a Full Volume Encryption Key, which is protected by the Volume Master Key, which is bound to the Trusted Platform Module." border="false":::


BitLocker supports keys which fall into two management categories:

- BitLocker-managed keys, which are generally short-lived and tied to the lifetime of an operating system instance installed on a server or to a given disk. These keys are deleted and reset during server reinstallation or disk formatting.
- BitLocker recovery keys, which are managed outside of BitLocker, are used for disk decryption. BitLocker uses recovery keys for the scenario in which an operating system is reinstalled, and encrypted data disks already exist. Recovery keys are also used by Managed Availability monitoring probes in Exchange Online where a responder may need to unlock a disk.

BitLocker key management protects recovery keys that are used to unlock and recover encrypted disks in a Microsoft datacenter. Microsoft 365 stores the master keys in a secured share, only accessible by individuals who have been screened and approved. The credentials for the keys are stored in a secured repository for access control data (what we call a "secret store"), which requires a high level of elevation and management approvals to access using a Just-In-Time (JIT) access elevation tool.
