In addition to using BitLocker for volume-level encryption, Microsoft 365 uses service encryption to encrypt customer data at the application layer. Service encryption protects customer data with data encryption keys using one of the following key management options:

- **Microsoft Managed Keys** – In the default implementation for customers not using Customer Key, Microsoft manages all cryptographic keys used for service encryption. This option is currently enabled by default for Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, and OneDrive for Business. Microsoft Managed keys provide default service encryption unless a customer onboards to Customer Key.
- **Customer Key** – This option allows customers to use their own root keys to encrypt customer data. Customer keys are uploaded to or generated within Azure Key Vault, allowing customers to control the ability of Microsoft services to decrypt and process customer data. This option is currently available for Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, and OneDrive for Business.

Regardless of the selected key management option, the root keys are used to protect key hierarchies used by service encryption. All keys used for service encryption are stored securely in private repositories, such as Azure Key Vault, where they can be used by automated service code without direct accessibility by Microsoft personnel. Service encryption includes regular key rotation to maintain key security. Key rotation occurs through automated service code on internally defined schedules based on key type. Customers who use Customer Key are responsible for rotating their root Customer Keys based on their own security and compliance requirements.

## Microsoft Managed Keys

With Microsoft Managed Keys, the Microsoft service manages and stores the root encryption keys used for service encryption, relieving the customer of the burden of provisioning and managing root encryption keys. Microsoft Managed Keys are stored in private key vaults that can only be accessed indirectly by Microsoft 365 services for data encryption. These keys cannot be accessed directly by Microsoft employees.

Microsoft Managed Keys are a viable solution for cloud customers that don't have key management requirements. For some customers, Microsoft Managed Keys may not meet their obligations for key management, operation, or storage. To meet these obligations, customer-managed keys can be implemented using the Customer Key feature.

:::image type="content" source="../media/managed-key-hierarchy.png" alt-text="Two flow diagrams showing the Microsoft Managed key hierarchy. The diagram to the left shows the key hierarchy for Exchange Online, which shows how two Microsoft Managed RSA keys and one equivalent AES-256 availability key are used to protect the Data Encryption Policy Key, which in turn protects the Mailbox Key used to encrypt mailboxes in Exchange Online. The diagram to the right shows the key hierarchy for SharePoint Online, OneDrive for Business, and Microsoft Teams files, which use SQL Transparent Data Encryption to protect File Chunk Encryption Keys for SQL Databases." border="false":::

