There are a few factors to consider when deciding if Microsoft 365 is the right choice for an organization. Microsoft 365 provides more features and functionality than some organizations might need. In these situations, Office 365 subscriptions might be the most appropriate choice. For others—such as larger organizations—the choice might be between Microsoft 365 and on-premises servers. 

When planning to purchase an Office 365 versus Microsoft 365 subscription, consider the following questions:

- **What business needs will drive your organization to move to Microsoft 365?** Some answers might include better availability, industry-standard security, lower hardware and software maintenance costs, and support for multiple devices and platforms.
- **What’s your organization’s current IT infrastructure?** For example, do you have many on-premises custom applications? If so, the planning process to move custom applications to the cloud might be time-consuming. If you opt to transition infrastructure and applications to the cloud, you might choose a hybrid solution, in which you move Exchange Server mailboxes to Office 365, and continue to host custom applications on-premises.
- **How many users will use Office 365 versus Microsoft 365, and what are your plans for growth?** Some Office 365 subscriptions are limited in the number of users and the types of functionalities permitted. Organizations have to match the requirements for Office 365 functionalities with the number of users. However, an organization can mix different Office 365 plans according to its business needs. For example, one organization can purchase 200 Business Essentials licenses  , 200 Business Premium seats, and 200 Enterprise E3 seats on a single tenant.
- **How do you plan to manage mobile devices?** For example, if you only plan to allow users to use organizationally-owned devices that are Windows Server Active Directory domain-joined, then you can use on-premises Group Policy settings to configure devices. However, if your users use their own devices, particularly if those devices run a variety of operating systems (iOS, macOS, Android, or Windows 10), then you’ll need mobile device management (MDM). If your device management needs are simple, you can probably use the MDM authority provided with Office 365. If your needs are more complex, then you’ll probably need to use Intune as your MDM authority, available as part of a Microsoft 365 subscription. 