The results of an audit log search can be exported to a comma-separated value (CSV) file on your local computer. By doing so, you can open the file in Microsoft Excel and use features such as search, sort, and filter. You can also split a single column (that contains multi-value cells) into multiple columns.

:::image type="content" source="../media/audit-log-search-results-excel-ae4dab0b.png" alt-text="screenshot showing the results of an audit log search in an Excel spreadsheet":::


The following steps provide an overview of what’s involved in exporting search results to a CSV file.

1.  Run an audit log search, and then revise the search criteria until you have the expected results.
2.  Select **Export results** and select one of the following options:
    
     -  **Save loaded results**. Choose this option to export only the entries that are displayed under **Results** on the **Audit log search.** The CSV file that's downloaded contains the same columns (and data) displayed on the page (Date, User, Activity, Item, and Details). Another column (named **More**) is included in the CSV file that contains more information from the audit log entry. Because you're exporting the same results that are loaded (and viewable) on the **Audit log search** page, a maximum of 5,000 entries are exported.<br>
     -  **Download all results**. Choose this option to export all entries from the Microsoft 365 audit log that meet the search criteria. For a large set of search results, choose this option to download all entries from the audit sign in, along with the 5,000 results that can be displayed on the Audit log search page. This option downloads the raw data from the audit log to a CSV file and displays additional information from the audit log entry in a column named **AuditData**. It may take longer to download the file if you choose this export option because the file may be much larger than the one that's downloaded if you choose the **Save loaded resultsImportant**: You can download a maximum of 50,000 entries to a CSV file from a single audit log search. If 50,000 entries are downloaded to the CSV file, you can probably assume there are more than 50,000 events that met the search criteria. To export more than this limit, try using a date range to reduce the number of audit log entries. You might have to run multiple searches with smaller date ranges to export less than 50,000 entries.<br>
3.  After you select an export option, a message is displayed at the bottom of the window that prompts you to open the CSV file, save it to the **Downloads** folder, or save it to a specific folder.

### Other considerations

Other considerations concerning the **Download all results** option include:

 -  The **Download all results** option downloads the raw data from the Office 365 audit log to a CSV file. This file contains different column names (CreationDate, UserIds, Operation, AuditData) than the file that's downloaded if you select the **Save loaded results** option. The values in the two different CSV files for the same activity may also be different. For example, the activity in the **Action** column in the CSV file and may have a different value than the "user-friendly" version that's displayed in the **Activity** column on the **Audit log search** page; for example, MailboxLogin vs. User signed in to mailbox.<br>
 -  If you download all results, the CSV file contains a column named **AuditData**, which contains additional information about each event. As previously stated, this column contains a multi-value property for multiple properties from the audit log record. Each of the property/value pairs in this multi-value property is separated by a comma. You can use the Power Query in Excel to split this column into multiple columns so that each property will have its own column. This design enables you to sort and filter on one or more of these properties. After you split the **AuditData** column, you can filter on the **Operations** column to display the detailed properties for a specific type of activity.<br>
 -  There's a 3,060-character limit for the data that's displayed in the **AuditData** field for an audit record. If the 3,060-character limit is exceeded, the data in this field is truncated.<br>
 -  When you download all results from a search query that contains events from different Microsoft 365 services, the **AuditData** column in the CSV file contains different properties depending on which service the action was completed in. For example, entries from Exchange and Azure AD audit logs include a property named **ResultStatus** that indicates whether the action was successful. This property isn't included for events in SharePoint. Similarly, SharePoint events have a property that identifies the site URL for file and folder-related activities. To mitigate this behavior, consider using different searches to export the results for activities from a single service.

**Additional reading.** For a description of the properties that are listed in the **AuditData** column in the CSV file when you download all results, and the service each one applies to, see [Detailed properties in the Microsoft 365 audit log](https://support.office.com/article/detailed-properties-in-the-office-365-audit-log-ce004100-9e7f-443e-942b-9b04098fcfc3?azure-portal=true).

## Knowledge check

Choose the best response for the following question. Then select “Check your answers.”