Offline address books (OABs) are downloadable copies of the address lists that are used by Outlook clients. To use an OAB, a client must be configured in cached mode, and it can't be connected to Exchange.

OABs are queried first when Outlook clients are connected to Exchange. This process helps reduce the workload on Exchange Server and prevents the client from causing more network traffic if the local OST includes the search result. The default OAB contains the entire GAL, which includes all recipients in the Exchange organization. You can create more address lists and add them to a custom OAB.

By default, the OAB is generated on a Mailbox server every eight hours. This design means that any additions, deletions, or changes made to mail-enabled recipients are only committed to the offline address book on these intervals, unless you modify the schedule to generate the OAB more frequently, or you manually update the OAB if needed.

Once Outlook clients download the OAB, any future changes to the address lists in Exchange are downloaded as a differential update instead of a full update. This design optimizes bandwidth and performance of the client connections.

Outlook clients download the OAB every 24 hours if you don't modify the default on the client side. Users can also start an OAB download manually, if needed.

If you plan to customize OABs, you should consider the following factors:

 -  Offline address book sizes can vary from a few megabytes to a few hundred megabytes. The OAB size depends on the following components:
    
     -  The number of mail recipients and groups in your organization.
     -  The usage of certificates. PKI certificates range from 1 KB to 3 KB.
     -  The number of attributes used by each recipient object.
 -  The number of OAB downloads should be optimized to save bandwidth and server performance. For example, in a geographically distributed organization, clients in the United States shouldn't download the OAB users in Europe.
 -  Overall changes to users and groups affect the size of the OAB downloads.

### Assign a default OAB

Before an organization installs Exchange Server, it should assign a default OAB to all its Exchange mailboxes. Users with mailboxes that aren’t assigned a default OAB when Exchange is installed will automatically download the new OAB generated by Exchange. This process could potentially cause significant network traffic and extra server load, especially if the Exchange organization has hundreds or thousands of mailboxes.

### OAB configuration tasks

OAB configuration tasks can be performed by Exchange PowerShell in Exchange Online and the Exchange Management Shell in Exchange Server. The most common OAB tasks include:

 -  **Create or remove an OAB.** For example, to create a custom OAB named “OAB\_Contoso” that contains the “Marketing” address list, you would run the following command:
    
    ```powershell
    New-OfflineAddressBook -Name "OAB_Marketing" -AddressLists "Marketing"
    ```
    
    To remove a custom OAB named “Contoso OAB”, use the following command:
    
    ```powershell
    Remove-OfflineAddressBook -Identity "Contoso OAB"
    ```
 -  **Add or remove an address list to an OAB**. For example, if an OAB named “Finance” already contains the address list “Finance Managers” and you want to add an address list titled “Finance Employees,” you would run the following command:
    
    ```powershell
    Set-OfflineAddressBook -Identity "Finance" -Address Lists "Finance Managers,"Finance Employees"
    ```
    
    For removing an address list from an OAB, repeat the previous command without the address list that needs to be removed. For example, if you need to remove the address list “Finance Managers” from the “Finance” OAB, you would run the following command:
    
    ```powershell
    Set-OfflineAddressBook -Identity "Finance" -Address Lists "Finance Employees"
    ```
 -  **Change the default OAB**. Large organizations can often have large default OABs. When this situation occurs, an organization may need to create a new OAB and configure it as a default. For example, to configure “Contoso OAB” as a default OAB in an organization, you would run the following command:
    
    ```powershell
    Set-OfflineAddressBook -Identity "Contoso OAB" -IsDefault $true
    ```
 -  **Assign OABs to users**. Once you customize your OABs, you must assign them to users according to your organization requirements. You can assign a custom OAB per mailbox or per address book policy. For example, to assign “Contoso OAB” to the mailbox “laura@contoso.com”, you would run the following command:
    
    ```powershell
    Set-Mailbox -Identity laura@contoso.com -OfflineAddressBook "Contoso OAB"
    ```
 -  **Assign ABP to users.** To assign the “Contoso ABP” address book policy to the mailbox “laura@contoso.com”, you would run the following command:
    
    ```powershell
    Set-Mailbox -Identity laura@contoso.com -AddressBookPolicy "Contoso ABP"
    ```
