In today's world personal productivity means working whenever and wherever is convenient. Microsoft 365 delivers industry-leading productivity tools, powered by AI, that help you to unleash your creativity and potential. Produce your best work, and keep in touch, wherever you happen to be - all helped by built-in intelligence and capabilities to:

 -  **Improve productivity.** Use Power Platform integration to automate processes, analyze data, and create virtual agents.
 -  **Engage employees.** You can engage and inform employees, and customers, with immersive video broadcasts and interactive discussion. Microsoft 365 tools help you to communicate the organization’s vision and provide a forum for open discussion.
 -  **Communicate with IM and chat.** Reach your colleagues through chat or a meeting, either informally while you are working, or for regular team meetings. Teams gives you the power to work in your way, whilst always keeping in touch.
 -  **Host online meetings.** Work remotely, work securely, and work effectively with your colleagues. Online meetings keep you in touch with your team, whilst giving you work anywhere flexibility. You can host 1:1 meetings, team meetings, as well as major live events – all with high-quality audio, video, and screen sharing. And all with the same security and compliance of Microsoft 365.
 -  **Stay in touch through email and calendaring.** Your calendar, contacts, and tasks are all in one place in Outlook. And Outlook goes where you go. Keep your priorities in front of you and share your calendar with others.
 -  **Be productive from anywhere.** Install your Microsoft 365 apps on up to five devices. All your apps are kept up to date with the latest fixes giving you more time to focus on your work. AI is built into your favorite 365 apps, to help you discover new insights, get personalized assistance, and find what you need more quickly.
 -  **Store and Share Files.** Data can be securely stored and shared in OneDrive or SharePoint, without having to worry about passwords.
 -  **Empower everyone.** All Microsoft 365 apps and tools are designed with accessibility features. Whatever your ability level, there are accessibility features to help you work, and be more productive.
