Now that you're aware of the migration options, it's important you decide on the best migration or coexistence option for your company. To select the best onboarding option to meet your company’s requirements, you must consider the following areas:

 *  **Current email system.** If your organization already has Exchange Server on-premises, and depending on the version of Exchange, you can look at the full range of migration options. If you currently run a third-party mail system, you can only use IMAP or third-party tools as migration options.
 *  **Exchange Server version.** If you run Exchange Server on-premises, the version of Exchange provides guidance on the migration options available. If you run Exchange 2010 or earlier, then follow best practice guidelines and update your on-premises environment to a functional version of Exchange.
 *  **Long-term coexistence with Exchange.** If your organization wants to keep its on-premises Exchange servers, the recommended approach is to consider a hybrid configuration.
 *  **User numbers.** If your organization has Exchange but doesn't want long-term coexistence, then number of users becomes the final deciding factor in which migration option to select. If there are fewer than 2000 users, the recommendation is an Exchange cutover migration. However, if there are 2000 or more mailboxes to migrate, then you need to review the version of Exchange Server again. If the organization uses Exchange 2010 or later, consider implementing a minimal or Express hybrid configuration to migrate your mailboxes.
 *  **IMAP connections.** An IMAP migration is possible if IMAP is or can be made available as a protocol to connect to the existing email system. However, if IMAP isn't available on the non-Exchange Server systems, migration will need to be PST-based or use a third-party tool.
 *  **POP3 connections.** If the third-party email system only provides POP3 protocol over which users connect to their mailboxes, the only migration option is to use a third-party migration tool or a PST migration.
